United States Supreme Court STIRONE v. UNITED STATES, (1960) No. 35 Argued:     Decided: January 11, 1960
Petitioner was indicted and convicted in a Federal District Court for interfering with interstate commerce by extortion, in violation of the Hobbs Act, 18 U.S.C. 1951. The only interstate commerce mentioned in the indictment was the importation into Pennsylvania of sand to be used in building a steel plant there; but the trial judge permitted the introduction of evidence to show interference also with the exportation from Pennsylvania of steel to be manufactured in the new plant, and he instructed the jury that it could base a conviction upon interference with either the importation of sand or the exportation of steel. Held: The conviction is reversed. Pp. 213-219.
(a) Since the indictment did not charge interference with the exportation of steel from the State, it was prejudicial error to submit to the jury the question whether the extortion interfered with the exportation of steel. Pp. 215-219.
(b) The variance between pleading and proof here involved was not insignificant and may not be dismissed as harmless error, because it deprived petitioner of his substantial right to be tried for a felony only on charges presented in an indictment returned by a grand jury. Pp. 217-218.
(c) Since the jury might have based the conviction on a finding of interference with the exportation of steel, the conviction must be reversed. P. 219.
Michael von Moschzisker argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the brief was Vincent M. Casey.
Wayne G. Barnett argued the cause for the United States. On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant Attorney General Wilkey, Ralph S. Spritzer, Beatrice Rosenberg and Theodore George Gilinsky. [361 U.S. 212, 213]  
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner Nicholas Stirone was indicted and convicted in a federal court for unlawfully interfering with interstate commerce in violation of the Hobbs Act. 1 The crucial question here is whether he was convicted of an offense not charged in the indictment.
So far as relevant to this question the indictment charged the following:
From 1951 until 1953, a man by the name of William G. Rider had a contract to supply ready-mixed concrete from his plant in Pennsylvania to be used for the erection of a steel-processing plant at Allenport, Pennsylvania. For the purpose of performing this contract Rider
"caused supplies and materials [sand] to move in interstate commerce between various points in the United States and the site of his plant for the manufacture or mixing of ready mixed concrete, and more particularly, from outside the State of Pennsylvania into the State of Pennsylvania."
"did . . . unlawfully obstruct, delay [and] affect interstate commerce between the several states of [361 U.S. 212, 214]   the United States and the movement of the aforesaid materials and supplies in such commerce, by extortion . . . of $31,274.13 . . . induced by fear and by the wrongful use of threats of labor disputes and threats of the loss of, and obstruction and prevention of, performance of his contract to supply ready mixed concrete."
[361 U.S. 212, 215]  
We agree with the Court of Appeals that Rider's dependence on shipments of sand from outside Pennsylvania to carry on his ready-mixed concrete business entitled him to the Hobbs Act's protection against interruption or stoppage of his commerce in sand by extortion of the kind that the jury found the petitioner had committed here. That Act speaks in broad language, manifesting a purpose to use all the constitutional power Congress has to punish interference with interstate commerce by extortion, robbery or physical violence. The Act outlaws such interference "in any way or degree." 18 U.S.C. 1951 (a). Had Rider's business been hindered or destroyed, interstate movements of sand to him would have slackened or stopped. The trial jury was entitled to find that commerce was saved from such a blockage by Rider's compliance with Stirone's coercive and illegal demands. It was to free commerce from such destructive burdens that the Hobbs Act was passed. United States v. Green, 350 U.S. 415, 420 .
Whether prospective steel shipments from the new steel mills would be enough, alone, to bring this transaction under the Act is a more difficult question. We need not decide this, however, since we agree with the dissenting judges in the Court of Appeals that it was error to submit that question to the jury and that the error cannot be dismissed as merely an insignificant variance between allegation and proof and thus harmless error as in Berger v. United States, 295 U.S. 78 . The crime charged here is a felony and the Fifth Amendment requires that prosecution be begun by indictment.
Ever since Ex parte Bain, 121 U.S. 1 . was decided in 1887 it has been the rule that after an indictment has been [361 U.S. 212, 216]   returned its charges may not be broadened through amendment except by the grand jury itself. In that case, the court ordered that some specific and relevant allegations the grand jury had charged be stricken from the indictment so that Bain might be convicted without proof of those particular allegations. 2 In holding that this could not be done, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the Court, said:
"If it lies within the province of a court to change the charging part of an indictment to suit its own notions of what it ought to have been, or what the grand jury would probably have made it if their attention had been called to suggested changes, the great importance which the common law attaches to an indictment by a grand jury, as a prerequisite to a prisoner's trial for a crime, and without which the Constitution says `no person shall be held to answer,' may be frittered away until its value is almost destroyed." 121 U.S. 1, 10 .
"that after the indictment was changed it was no longer the indictment of the grand jury who presented it. Any other doctrine would place the rights of the citizen, which were intended to be protected [361 U.S. 212, 217]   by the constitutional provision, at the mercy or control of the court or prosecuting attorney . . . ." 121 U.S. 1, 13 .
281 U.S. 619, 622
197 U.S. 207, 219
273 U.S. 593, 602
265 U.S. 393, 402
[361 U.S. 212, 218]  
295 U.S. 78
3
Here, as the trial court charged the jury, there are two essential elements of a Hobbs Act crime: interference with commerce, and extortion. Both elements have to be charged. Neither is surplusage and neither can be treated as surplusage. The charge that interstate commerce is affected is critical since the Federal Government's jurisdiction of this crime rests only on that interference. It follows that when only one particular kind of commerce is charged to have been burdened a conviction must rest on that charge and not another, even though it be assumed that under an indictment drawn in general terms a conviction might rest upon a showing that commerce of one kind or another had been burdened. The right [361 U.S. 212, 219]   to have the grand jury make the charge on its own judgment is a substantial right which cannot be taken away with or without court amendment. Here, as in the Bain case, we cannot know whether the grand jury would have included in its indictment a charge that commerce in steel from a nonexistent steel mill had been interfered with. Yet because of the court's admission of evidence and under its charge this might have been the basis upon which the trial jury convicted petitioner. If so, he was convicted on a charge the grand jury never made against him. This was fatal error. Cf. Cole v. Arkansas, 333 U.S. 196 ; De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U.S. 353 .
Reversed.
Footnotes
Footnote 1
[ Footnote 2 ] Bain was indicted for making a false statement "with intent to deceive the Comptroller of the Currency and the agent appointed to examine the affairs of said association . . . ." After sustaining demurrers of Bain to the indictment, the trial court went on to say that "thereupon, on motion of the United States, by counsel, the court orders that the indictment be amended by striking out the words `the Comptroller of the Currency and' therein contained." By this amendment it was intended to permit conviction of Bain without proof that he had deceived the Comptroller as the grand jury had charged.
[ Footnote 3 ] "Yet the institution [the grand jury] was adopted in this country, and is continued from considerations similar to those which give to it its chief value in England, and is designed as a means, not only of bringing to trial persons accused of public offences upon just grounds, but also as a means of protecting the citizen against unfounded accusation, whether it comes from government, or be prompted by partisan passion or private enmity. No person shall be required, according to the fundamental law of the country, except in the cases mentioned, to answer for any of the higher crimes unless this body, consisting of not less than sixteen nor more than twenty-three good and lawful men, selected from the body of the district, shall declare, upon careful deliberation, under the solemnity of an oath, that there is good reason for his accusation and trial." Ex parte Bain, 121 U.S. 1, 11 . See also Costello v. United States, 350 U.S. 359, 362 , 363, n. 6. [361 U.S. 212, 220]  
