United States Supreme Court
JAE LEE v. UNITED STATES, (2017)
No. 16-327
Argued: March 28, 2017    Decided: June 23, 2017
Petitioner Jae Lee moved to the United States from South Korea with his parents when he was 13.
In the 35 years he has spent in this country, he has never returned to South Korea, nor has he become a U. S. citizen, living instead as a lawful permanent resident.
In 2008, federal officials received a tip from a confidential informant that Lee had sold the informant ecstasy and marijuana.
After obtaining a warrant, the officials searched Lee's house, where they found drugs, cash, and a loaded rifle.
Lee admitted that the drugs were his, and a grand jury indicted him on one count of possessing ecstasy with intent to distribute.
Lee retained counsel and entered into plea discussions with the Government.
During the plea process, Lee repeatedly asked his attorney whether he would face deportation; his attorney assured him that he would not be deported as a result of pleading guilty.
Based on that assurance, Lee accepted a plea and was sentenced to a year and a day in prison.
Lee had in fact pleaded guilty to an "aggravated felony" under the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(B), so he was, contrary to his attorney's advice, subject to mandatory deportation as a result of that plea.
See §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).
When Lee learned of this consequence, he filed a motion to vacate his conviction and sentence, arguing that his attorney had provided constitutionally ineffective assistance.
At an evidentiary hearing, both Lee and his plea-stage counsel testified that "deportation was the determinative issue" to Lee in deciding whether to accept a plea, and Lee's counsel acknowledged that although Lee's defense to the charge was weak, if he had known Lee would be deported upon pleading guilty, he would have advised him to go to trial.
A Magistrate Judge recommended that Lee's plea be set aside and his conviction vacated.
The District Court, however, denied relief, and the Sixth Circuit affirmed.
Applying the two-part test for ineffective assistance claims from Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, the Sixth Circuit concluded that, while the Government conceded that Lee's counsel had performed deficiently, Lee could not show that he was prejudiced by his attorney's erroneous advice.
Held: Lee has demonstrated that he was prejudiced by his counsel's erroneous advice.
Pp. 5-13.
(a) When a defendant claims that his counsel's deficient performance deprived him of a trial by causing him to accept a plea, the defendant can show prejudice by demonstrating a "reasonable probability that, but for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."
Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52, 59.
Lee contends that he can make this showing because he never would have accepted a guilty plea had he known the result would be deportation.
The Government contends that Lee cannot show prejudice from accepting a plea where his only hope at trial was that something unexpected and unpredictable might occur that would lead to acquittal.
Pp. 5-8.
(b) The Government makes two errors in urging the adoption of a per se rule that a defendant with no viable defense cannot show prejudice from the denial of his right to trial.
First, it forgets that categorical rules are ill suited to an inquiry that demands a "case-by-case examination" of the "totality of the evidence."
Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362, 391 (internal quotation marks omitted); Strickland, 466 U. S., at 695.
More fundamentally, it overlooks that the Hill v. Lockhart inquiry focuses on a defendant's decisionmaking, which may not turn solely on the likelihood of conviction after trial.
The decision whether to plead guilty also involves assessing the respective consequences of a conviction after trial and by plea.
See INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 322-323.
When those consequences are, from the defendant's perspective, similarly dire, even the smallest chance of success at trial may look attractive.
For Lee, deportation after some time in prison was not meaningfully different from deportation after somewhat less time; he says he accordingly would have rejected any plea leading to deportation in favor of throwing a "Hail Mary" at trial.
Pointing to Strickland, the Government urges that "[a] defendant has no entitlement to the luck of a lawless decisionmaker."
466 U. S., at 695.
That statement, however, was made in the context of discussing the presumption of reliability applied to judicial proceedings, which has no place where, as here, a defendant was deprived of a proceeding altogether.
When the inquiry is focused on what an individual defendant would have done, the possibility of even a highly improbable result may be pertinent to the extent it would have affected the defendant's decisionmaking.
Pp. 8-10.
(c) Courts should not upset a plea solely because of post hoc assertions from a defendant about how he would have pleaded but for his attorney's deficiencies.
Rather, they should look to contemporaneous evidence to substantiate a defendant's expressed preferences.
In the unusual circumstances of this case, Lee has adequately demonstrated a reasonable probability that he would have rejected the plea had he known that it would lead to mandatory deportation: Both Lee and his attorney testified that "deportation was the determinative issue" to Lee; his responses during his plea colloquy confirmed the importance he placed on deportation; and he had strong connections to the United States, while he had no ties to South Korea.
The Government argues that Lee cannot "convince the court that a decision to reject the plea bargain would have been rational under the circumstances," Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. 356, 372, since deportation would almost certainly result from a trial.
Unlike the Government, this Court cannot say that it would be irrational for someone in Lee's position to risk additional prison time in exchange for holding on to some chance of avoiding deportation.
Pp. 10-13.
825 F. 3d 311, reversed and remanded.
Roberts, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.
Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Alito, J., joined except as to Part I. Gorsuch, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.
Opinion of the Court
582 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 16-327
JAE LEE, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit
[June 23, 2017]
Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner Jae Lee was indicted on one count of possessing ecstasy with intent to distribute.
Although he has lived in this country for most of his life, Lee is not a United States citizen, and he feared that a criminal conviction might affect his status as a lawful permanent resident.
His attorney assured him there was nothing to worry about--the Government would not deport him if he pleaded guilty.
So Lee, who had no real defense to the charge, opted to accept a plea that carried a lesser prison sentence than he would have faced at trial.
Lee's attorney was wrong: The conviction meant that Lee was subject to mandatory deportation from this country.
Lee seeks to vacate his conviction on the ground that, in accepting the plea, he received ineffective assistance of counsel in violation of the Sixth Amendment.
Everyone agrees that Lee received objectively unreasonable representation.
The question presented is whether he can show he was prejudiced as a result.
I
Jae Lee moved to the United States from South Korea in 1982.
He was 13 at the time.
His parents settled the family in New York City, where they opened a small coffee shop.
After graduating from a business high school in Manhattan, Lee set out on his own to Memphis, Tennessee, where he started working at a restaurant.
After three years, Lee decided to try his hand at running a business.
With some assistance from his family, Lee opened the Mandarin Palace Chinese Restaurant in a Memphis suburb.
The Mandarin was a success, and Lee eventually opened a second restaurant nearby.
In the 35 years he has spent in the country, Lee has never returned to South Korea.
He did not become a United States citizen, living instead as a lawful permanent resident.
At the same time he was running his lawful businesses, Lee also engaged in some illegitimate activity.
In 2008, a confidential informant told federal officials that Lee had sold the informant approximately 200 ecstasy pills and two ounces of hydroponic marijuana over the course of eight years.
The officials obtained a search warrant for Lee's house, where they found 88 ecstasy pills, three Valium tablets, $32,432 in cash, and a loaded rifle.
Lee admitted that the drugs were his and that he had given ecstasy to his friends.
A grand jury indicted Lee on one count of possessing ecstasy with intent to distribute in violation of 21 U. S. C. §841(a)(1).
Lee retained an attorney and entered into plea discussions with the Government.
The attorney advised Lee that going to trial was "very risky" and that, if he pleaded guilty, he would receive a lighter sentence than he would if convicted at trial.
App.
167.
Lee informed his attorney of his noncitizen status and repeatedly asked him whether he would face deportation as a result of the criminal proceedings.
The attorney told Lee that he would not be deported as a result of pleading guilty.
Lee v. United States, 825 F. 3d 311, 313 (CA6 2016).
Based on that assurance, Lee accepted the plea and the District Court sentenced him to a year and a day in prison, though it deferred commencement of Lee's sentence for two months so that Lee could manage his restaurants over the holiday season.
Lee quickly learned, however, that a prison term was not the only consequence of his plea.
Lee had pleaded guilty to what qualifies as an "aggravated felony" under the Immigration and Nationality Act, and a noncitizen convicted of such an offense is subject to mandatory deportation.
See 8 U. S. C. §§1101(a)(43)(B), 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii); Calcano-Martinez v. INS, 533 U. S. 348, 350, n. 1 (2001).
Upon learning that he would be deported after serving his sentence, Lee filed a motion under 28 U. S. C. §2255 to vacate his conviction and sentence, arguing that his attorney had provided constitutionally ineffective assistance.
At an evidentiary hearing on Lee's motion, both Lee and his plea-stage counsel testified that "deportation was the determinative issue in Lee's decision whether to accept the plea."
Report and Recommendation in No. 2:10-cv-02698 (WD Tenn.), pp. 6-7 (Report and Recommendation).
In fact, Lee explained, his attorney became "pretty upset because every time something comes up I always ask about immigration status," and the lawyer "always said why [are you] worrying about something that you don't need to worry about."
App.
170.
According to Lee, the lawyer assured him that if deportation was not in the plea agreement, "the government cannot deport you."
Ibid.
Lee's attorney testified that he thought Lee's case was a "bad case to try" because Lee's defense to the charge was weak.
Id., at 218-219.
The attorney nonetheless acknowledged that if he had known Lee would be deported upon pleading guilty, he would have advised him to go to trial.
Id., at 236, 244.
Based on the hearing testimony, a Magistrate Judge recommended that Lee's plea be set aside and his conviction vacated because he had received ineffective assistance of counsel.
The District Court, however, denied relief.
Applying our two-part test for ineffective assistance claims from Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), the District Court concluded that Lee's counsel had performed deficiently by giving improper advice about the deportation consequences of the plea.
But, "[i]n light of the overwhelming evidence of Lee's guilt," Lee "would have almost certainly" been found guilty and received "a significantly longer prison sentence, and subsequent deportation," had he gone to trial.
Order in No. 2:10-cv-02698 (WD Tenn.), p. 24 (Order).
Lee therefore could not show he was prejudiced by his attorney's erroneous advice.
Viewing its resolution of the issue as debatable among jurists of reason, the District Court granted a certificate of appealability.
The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed the denial of relief.
On appeal, the Government conceded that the performance of Lee's attorney had been deficient.
To establish that he was prejudiced by that deficient performance, the court explained, Lee was required to show "a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."
825 F. 3d, at 313 (quoting Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52, 59 (1985); internal quotation marks omitted).
Lee had "no bona fide defense, not even a weak one," so he "stood to gain nothing from going to trial but more prison time."
825 F. 3d, at 313, 316.
Relying on Circuit precedent holding that "no rational defendant charged with a deportable offense and facing overwhelming evidence of guilt would proceed to trial rather than take a plea deal with a shorter prison sentence," the Court of Appeals concluded that Lee could not show prejudice.
Id., at 314 (internal quotation marks omitted).
We granted certiorari.
580 U. S. ___ (2016).
II
The Sixth Amendment guarantees a defendant the effective assistance of counsel at "critical stages of a criminal proceeding," including when he enters a guilty plea.
Lafler v. Cooper, 566 U. S. 156, 165 (2012); Hill, 474 U. S., at 58.
To demonstrate that counsel was constitutionally ineffective, a defendant must show that counsel's representation "fell below an objective standard of reasonableness" and that he was prejudiced as a result.
Strickland, 466 U. S., at 688, 692.
The first requirement is not at issue in today's case: The Government concedes that Lee's plea-stage counsel provided inadequate representation when he assured Lee that he would not be deported if he pleaded guilty.
Brief for United States 15.
The question is whether Lee can show he was prejudiced by that erroneous advice.
A
A claim of ineffective assistance of counsel will often involve a claim of attorney error "during the course of a legal proceeding"--for example, that counsel failed to raise an objection at trial or to present an argument on appeal.
Roe v. Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S. 470, 481 (2000).
A defendant raising such a claim can demonstrate prejudice by showing "a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different."
Id., at 482 (quoting Strickland, 466 U. S., at 694; internal quotation marks omitted).
But in this case counsel's "deficient performance arguably led not to a judicial proceeding of disputed reliability, but rather to the forfeiture of a proceeding itself."
Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S., at 483.
When a defendant alleges his counsel's deficient performance led him to accept a guilty plea rather than go to trial, we do not ask whether, had he gone to trial, the result of that trial "would have been different" than the result of the plea bargain.
That is because, while we ordinarily "apply a strong presumption of reliability to judicial proceedings," "we cannot accord" any such presumption "to judicial proceedings that never took place."
Id., at 482-483 (internal quotation marks omitted).
We instead consider whether the defendant was prejudiced by the "denial of the entire judicial proceeding . . . to which he had a right."
Id., at 483.
As we held in Hill v. Lockhart, when a defendant claims that his counsel's deficient performance deprived him of a trial by causing him to accept a plea, the defendant can show prejudice by demonstrating a "reasonable probability that, but for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."
474 U. S., at 59.
The dissent contends that a defendant must also show that he would have been better off going to trial.
That is true when the defendant's decision about going to trial turns on his prospects of success and those are affected by the attorney's error--for instance, where a defendant alleges that his lawyer should have but did not seek to suppress an improperly obtained confession.
Premo v. Moore, 562 U. S. 115, 118 (2011); cf., e.g., Hill, 474 U. S., at 59 (discussing failure to investigate potentially exculpatory evidence).
Not all errors, however, are of that sort.
Here Lee knew, correctly, that his prospects of acquittal at trial were grim, and his attorney's error had nothing to do with that.
The error was instead one that affected Lee's understanding of the consequences of pleading guilty.
The Court confronted precisely this kind of error in Hill.
See id., at 60 ("the claimed error of counsel is erroneous advice as to eligibility for parole").
Rather than asking how a hypothetical trial would have played out absent the error, the Court considered whether there was an adequate showing that the defendant, properly advised, would have opted to go to trial.
The Court rejected the defendant's claim because he had "alleged no special circumstances that might support the conclusion that he placed particular emphasis on his parole eligibility in deciding whether or not to plead guilty."
Ibid.1
Lee, on the other hand, argues he can establish prejudice under Hill because he never would have accepted a guilty plea had he known that he would be deported as a result.
Lee insists he would have gambled on trial, risking more jail time for whatever small chance there might be of an acquittal that would let him remain in the United States.2 The Government responds that, since Lee had no viable defense at trial, he would almost certainly have lost and found himself still subject to deportation, with a lengthier prison sentence to boot.
Lee, the Government contends, cannot show prejudice from accepting a plea where his only hope at trial was that something unexpected and unpredictable might occur that would lead to an acquittal.
B
The Government asks that we, like the Court of Appeals below, adopt a per se rule that a defendant with no viable defense cannot show prejudice from the denial of his right to trial.
Brief for United States 26.
As a general matter, it makes sense that a defendant who has no realistic defense to a charge supported by sufficient evidence will be unable to carry his burden of showing prejudice from accepting a guilty plea.
But in elevating this general proposition to a per se rule, the Government makes two errors.
First, it forgets that categorical rules are ill suited to an inquiry that we have emphasized demands a "case-by-case examination" of the "totality of the evidence."
Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362, 391 (2000) (internal quotation marks omitted); Strickland, 466 U. S., at 695.
And, more fundamentally, the Government overlooks that the inquiry we prescribed in Hill v. Lockhart focuses on a defendant's decisionmaking, which may not turn solely on the likelihood of conviction after trial.
A defendant without any viable defense will be highly likely to lose at trial.
And a defendant facing such long odds will rarely be able to show prejudice from accepting a guilty plea that offers him a better resolution than would be likely after trial.
But that is not because the prejudice inquiry in this context looks to the probability of a conviction for its own sake.
It is instead because defendants obviously weigh their prospects at trial in deciding whether to accept a plea.
See Hill, 474 U. S., at 59.
Where a defendant has no plausible chance of an acquittal at trial, it is highly likely that he will accept a plea if the Government offers one.
But common sense (not to mention our precedent) recognizes that there is more to consider than simply the likelihood of success at trial.
The decision whether to plead guilty also involves assessing the respective consequences of a conviction after trial and by plea.
See INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 322-323 (2001).
When those consequences are, from the defendant's perspective, similarly dire, even the smallest chance of success at trial may look attractive.
For example, a defendant with no realistic defense to a charge carrying a 20-year sentence may nevertheless choose trial, if the prosecution's plea offer is 18 years.
Here Lee alleges that avoiding deportation was the determinative factor for him; deportation after some time in prison was not meaningfully different from deportation after somewhat less time.
He says he accordingly would have rejected any plea leading to deportation--even if it shaved off prison time--in favor of throwing a "Hail Mary" at trial.
The Government urges that, in such circumstances, the possibility of an acquittal after trial is "irrelevant to the prejudice inquiry," pointing to our statement in Strickland that "[a] defendant has no entitlement to the luck of a lawless decisionmaker."
466 U. S., at 695.
That statement, however, was made in the context of discussing the presumption of reliability we apply to judicial proceedings.
As we have explained, that presumption has no place where, as here, a defendant was deprived of a proceeding altogether.
Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S., at 483.
In a presumptively reliable proceeding, "the possibility of arbitrariness, whimsy, caprice, 'nullification,' and the like" must by definition be ignored.
Strickland, 466 U. S., at 695.
But where we are instead asking what an individual defendant would have done, the possibility of even a highly improbable result may be pertinent to the extent it would have affected his decisionmaking.3
C
"Surmounting Strickland's high bar is never an easy task," Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. 356, 371 (2010), and the strong societal interest in finality has "special force with respect to convictions based on guilty pleas."
United States v. Timmreck, 441 U. S. 780, 784 (1979).
Courts should not upset a plea solely because of post hoc assertions from a defendant about how he would have pleaded but for his attorney's deficiencies.
Judges should instead look to contemporaneous evidence to substantiate a defendant's expressed preferences.
In the unusual circumstances of this case, we conclude that Lee has adequately demonstrated a reasonable probability that he would have rejected the plea had he known that it would lead to mandatory deportation.
There is no question that "deportation was the determinative issue in Lee's decision whether to accept the plea deal."
Report and Recommendation, at 6-7; see also Order, at 14 (noting Government did not dispute testimony to this effect).
Lee asked his attorney repeatedly whether there was any risk of deportation from the proceedings, and both Lee and his attorney testified at the evidentiary hearing below that Lee would have gone to trial if he had known about the deportation consequences.
See Report and Recommendation, at 12 (noting "the undisputed fact that had Lee at all been aware that deportation was possible as a result of his guilty plea, he would . . . not have pled guilty"), adopted in relevant part in Order, at 15.
Lee demonstrated as much at his plea colloquy: When the judge warned him that a conviction "could result in your being deported," and asked "[d]oes that at all affect your decision about whether you want to plead guilty or not," Lee answered "Yes, Your Honor."
App.
103.
When the judge inquired "[h]ow does it affect your decision," Lee responded "I don't understand," and turned to his attorney for advice.
Ibid.
Only when Lee's counsel assured him that the judge's statement was a "standard warning" was Lee willing to proceed to plead guilty.
Id., at 210.4
There is no reason to doubt the paramount importance Lee placed on avoiding deportation.
Deportation is always "a particularly severe penalty," Padilla, 559 U. S., at 365 (internal quotation marks omitted), and we have "recognized that 'preserving the client's right to remain in the United States may be more important to the client than any potential jail sentence,' " id., at 368 (quoting St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 322; alteration and some internal quotation marks omitted); see also Padilla, 559 U. S., at 364 ("[D]eportation is an integral part--indeed, sometimes the most important part--of the penalty that may be imposed on noncitizen defendants who plead guilty to specified crimes."
(footnote omitted)).
At the time of his plea, Lee had lived in the United States for nearly three decades, had established two businesses in Tennessee, and was the only family member in the United States who could care for his elderly parents--both naturalized American citizens.
In contrast to these strong connections to the United States, there is no indication that he had any ties to South Korea; he had never returned there since leaving as a child.
The Government argues, however, that under Padilla v. Kentucky, a defendant "must convince the court that a decision to reject the plea bargain would have been rational under the circumstances."
Id., at 372.
The Government contends that Lee cannot make that showing because he was going to be deported either way; going to trial would only result in a longer sentence before that inevitable consequence.
See Brief for United States 13, 21-23.
We cannot agree that it would be irrational for a defendant in Lee's position to reject the plea offer in favor of trial.
But for his attorney's incompetence, Lee would have known that accepting the plea agreement would certainly lead to deportation.
Going to trial?
Almost certainly.
If deportation were the "determinative issue" for an individual in plea discussions, as it was for Lee; if that individual had strong connections to this country and no other, as did Lee; and if the consequences of taking a chance at trial were not markedly harsher than pleading, as in this case, that "almost" could make all the difference.
Balanced against holding on to some chance of avoiding deportation was a year or two more of prison time.
See id., at 6.
Not everyone in Lee's position would make the choice to reject the plea.
But we cannot say it would be irrational to do so.
Lee's claim that he would not have accepted a plea had he known it would lead to deportation is backed by substantial and uncontroverted evidence.
Accordingly we conclude Lee has demonstrated a "reasonable probability that, but for [his] counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."
Hill, 474 U. S., at 59.
*??*??*
The judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
Justice Gorsuch took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
Thomas, J., dissenting
582 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 16-327
JAE LEE, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit
[June 23, 2017]
Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito joins except for Part I, dissenting.
The Court today holds that a defendant can undo a guilty plea, well after sentencing and in the face of overwhelming evidence of guilt, because he would have chosen to pursue a defense at trial with no reasonable chance of success if his attorney had properly advised him of the immigration consequences of his plea.
Neither the Sixth Amendment nor this Court's precedents support that conclusion.
I respectfully dissent.
I
As an initial matter, I remain of the view that the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution does not "requir[e] counsel to provide accurate advice concerning the potential removal consequences of a guilty plea."
Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. 356, 388 (2010) (Scalia, J., joined by Thomas, J., dissenting).
I would therefore affirm the Court of Appeals on the ground that the Sixth Amendment does not apply to the allegedly ineffective assistance in this case.
II
Because the Court today announces a novel standard for prejudice at the plea stage, I further dissent on the separate ground that its standard does not follow from our precedents.
A
The Court and both of the parties agree that the prejudice inquiry in this context is governed by Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984).
See ante, at 5; Brief for Petitioner 16; Brief for United States 15.
The Court in Strickland held that a defendant may establish a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel by showing that his "counsel's representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness" and, as relevant here, that the representation prejudiced the defendant by "actually ha[ving] an adverse effect on the defense."
466 U. S., at 688, 693.
To establish prejudice under Strickland, a defendant must show a "reasonable probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different."
Id., at 694.
Strickland made clear that the "result of the proceeding" refers to the outcome of the defendant's criminal prosecution as a whole.
It defined "reasonable probability" as "a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome."
Ibid.
(emphasis added).
And it explained that "[a]n error by counsel . . . does not warrant setting aside the judgment of a criminal proceeding if the error had no effect on the judgment."
Id., at 691 (emphasis added).
The parties agree that this inquiry assumes an "objective" decisionmaker.
Brief for Petitioner 17; Brief for United States 17.
That conclusion also follows directly from Strickland.
According to Strickland, the "assessment of the likelihood of a result more favorable to the defendant must exclude the possibility of arbitrariness, whimsy, caprice, 'nullification,' and the like."
466 U. S., at 695.
It does not depend on subjective factors such as "the idiosyncrasies of the particular decisionmaker," including the decisionmaker's "unusual propensities toward harshness or leniency."
Ibid.
These factors are flatly "irrelevant to the prejudice inquiry."
Ibid.
In other words, "[a] defendant has no entitlement to the luck of a lawless decisionmaker."
Ibid.
Instead, "[t]he assessment of prejudice should proceed on the assumption that the decisionmaker is reasonably, conscientiously, and impartially applying the standards that govern the decision."
Ibid.
When the Court extended the right to effective counsel to the plea stage, see Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52 (1985), it held that "the same two-part standard" from Strickland applies.
474 U. S., at 57 (repeating Strickland's teaching that even an unreasonable error by counsel " 'does not warrant setting aside the judgment' " so long as the error " 'had no effect on the judgment' " (quoting 466 U. S., at 691)).
To be sure, the Court said--and the majority today emphasizes--that a defendant asserting an ineffectiveness claim at the plea stage "must show that there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."
474 U. S., at 59.
But that requirement merely reflects the reality that a defendant cannot show that the outcome of his case would have been different if he would have accepted his current plea anyway.
* In other words, the defendant's ability to show that he would have gone to trial is necessary, but not sufficient, to establish prejudice.
The Hill Court went on to explain that Strickland's two-part test applies the same way in the plea context as in other contexts.
In particular, the "assessment" will primarily turn on "a prediction whether," in the absence of counsel's error, "the evidence" of the defendant's innocence or guilt "likely would have changed the outcome" of the proceeding.
474 U. S., at 59.
Thus, a defendant cannot show prejudice where it is " 'inconceivable' " not only that he would have gone to trial, but also " 'that if he had done so he either would have been acquitted or, if convicted, would nevertheless have been given a shorter sentence than he actually received.' "
Ibid.
(quoting Evans v. Meyer, 742 F. 2d 371, 375 (CA7 1984) (emphasis added)).
In sum, the proper inquiry requires a defendant to show both that he would have rejected his plea and gone to trial and that he would likely have obtained a more favorable result in the end.
To the extent Hill was ambiguous about the standard, our precedents applying it confirm this interpretation.
In Premo v. Moore, 562 U. S. 115 (2011), the Court emphasized that "strict adherence to the Strickland standard" is "essential" when reviewing claims about attorney error "at the plea bargain stage."
Id., at 125.
In that case, the defendant argued that his counsel was constitutionally ineffective because he had failed to seek suppression of his confession before he pleaded no contest.
In analyzing the prejudice issue, the Court did not focus solely on whether the suppression hearing would have turned out differently, or whether the defendant would have chosen to go to trial.
It focused as well on the weight of the evidence against the defendant and the fact that he likely would not have obtained a more favorable result at trial, regardless of whether he succeeded at the suppression hearing.
See id., at 129 (describing the State's case as "formidable" and observing that "[t]he bargain counsel struck" in the plea agreement was "a favorable one" to the defendant compared to what might have happened at trial).
The Court in Missouri v. Frye, 566 U. S. 134 (2012), took a similar approach.
In that case, the Court extended Hill to hold that counsel could be constitutionally ineffective for failing to communicate a plea deal to a defendant.
566 U. S., at 145.
The Court emphasized that, in addition to showing a reasonable probability that the defendant "would have accepted the earlier plea offer," it is also "necessary" to show a "reasonable probability that the end result of the criminal process would have been more favorable by reason of a plea to a lesser charge or a sentence of less prison time."
Id., at 147; see also id., at 150 (the defendant "must show not only a reasonable probability that he would have accepted the lapsed plea but also a reasonable probability that the prosecution would have adhered to the agreement and that it would have been accepted by the trial court" (emphasis added)).
In short, the Court did not focus solely on whether the defendant would have accepted the plea.
It instead required the defendant to show that the ultimate outcome would have been different.
Finally, the Court's decision in Lafler v. Cooper, 566 U. S. 156 (2012), is to the same effect.
In that case, the Court concluded that counsel may be constitutionally ineffective by causing a defendant to reject a plea deal he should have accepted.
Id., at 164.
The Court again emphasized that the prejudice inquiry requires a showing that the criminal prosecution would ultimately have ended differently for the defendant--not merely that the defendant would have accepted the deal.
The Court stated that the defendant in those circumstances "must show" a reasonable probability that "the conviction or sentence, or both, under the offer's terms would have been less severe than under the judgment and sentence that in fact were imposed."
Ibid.
These precedents are consistent with our cases governing the right to effective assistance of counsel in other contexts.
This Court has held that the right to effective counsel applies to all "critical stages of the criminal proceedings."
Montejo v. Louisiana, 556 U. S. 778, 786 (2009) (internal quotation marks omitted).
Those stages include not only "the entry of a guilty plea," but also "arraignments, postindictment interrogation, [and] postindictment lineups."
Frye, supra, at 140 (citing cases).
In those circumstances, the Court has not held that the prejudice inquiry focuses on whether that stage of the proceeding would have ended differently.
It instead has made clear that the prejudice inquiry is the same as in Strickland, which requires a defendant to establish that he would have been better off in the end had his counsel not erred.
See 466 U. S., at 694.
B
The majority misapplies this Court's precedents when it concludes that a defendant may establish prejudice by showing only that "he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial," without showing that "the result of that trial would have been different than the result of the plea bargain."
Ante, at 5, 6 (internal quotation marks omitted).
In reaching this conclusion, the Court relies almost exclusively on the single line from Hill that "the defendant must show that there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."
474 U. S., at 59.
For the reasons explained above, that sentence prescribes the threshold showing a defendant must make to establish Strickland prejudice where a defendant has accepted a guilty plea.
In Hill, the Court concluded that the defendant had not made that showing, so it rejected his claim.
The Court did not, however, further hold that a defendant can establish prejudice by making that showing alone.
The majority also relies on a case that arises in a completely different context, Roe v. Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S. 470 (2000).
There, the Court considered a defendant's claim that his attorney failed to file a notice of appeal.
See id., at 474.
The Court observed that the lawyer's failure to file the notice of appeal "arguably led not to a judicial proceeding of disputed reliability," but instead to "the forfeiture of a proceeding itself."
Id., at 483.
The Court today observes that petitioner's guilty plea meant that he did not go to trial.
Ante, at 5.
Because that trial " 'never took place,' " the Court reasons, we cannot " 'apply a strong presumption of reliability' " to it.
Ante, at 5-6 (quoting Flores-Ortega, supra, at 482-483).
And because the presumption of reliability does not apply, we may not depend on Strickland's statement "that '[a] defendant has no entitlement to the luck of a lawless decisionmaker.' "
Ante, at 8 (quoting 466 U. S., at 695).
This point is key to the majority's conclusion that petitioner would have chosen to gamble on a trial even though he had no viable defense.
The majority's analysis, however, is directly contrary to Hill, which instructed a court undertaking a prejudice analysis to apply a presumption of reliability to the hypothetical trial that would have occurred had the defendant not pleaded guilty.
After explaining that a court should engage in a predictive inquiry about the likelihood of a defendant securing a better result at trial, the Court said: "As we explained in Strickland v. Washington, supra, these predictions of the outcome at a possible trial, where necessary, should be made objectively, without regard for the 'idiosyncrasies of the particular decisionmaker.' "
474 U. S., at 59-60 (quoting 466 U. S., at 695).
That quote comes from the same paragraph in Strickland as the discussion about the presumption of reliability that attaches to the trial.
In other words, Hill instructs that the prejudice inquiry must presume that the foregone trial would have been reliable.
The majority responds that Hill made statements about presuming a reliable trial only in "discussing how courts should analyze 'predictions of the outcome at a possible trial,' " which "will not always be 'necessary.' "
Ante, at 10, n. 3 (quoting Hill, 474 U. S., at 59-60).
I agree that such an inquiry is not always necessary--it is not necessary where, as in Hill, the defendant cannot show at the threshold that he would have rejected his plea and chosen to go to trial.
But that caveat says nothing about the application of the presumption of reliability when a defendant can make that threshold showing.
In any event, the Court in Hill recognized that guilty pleas are themselves generally reliable.
Guilty pleas "rarely" give rise to the "concern that unfair procedures may have resulted in the conviction of an innocent defendant."
Id., at 58 (internal quotation marks omitted).
That is because "a counseled plea of guilty is an admission of factual guilt so reliable that, where voluntary and intelligent, it quite validly removes the issue of factual guilt from the case."
Menna v. New York, 423 U. S. 61, 62, n. 2 (1975) (per curiam) (emphasis deleted).
Guilty pleas, like completed trials, are therefore entitled to the protections against collateral attack that the Strickland prejudice standard affords.
Finally, the majority does not dispute that the prejudice inquiry in Frye and Lafler focused on whether the defendant established a reasonable probability of a different outcome.
The majority instead distinguishes those cases on the ground that they involved a defendant who did not accept a guilty plea.
See ante, at 7, n. 1.
According to the majority, those cases "articulated a different way to show prejudice, suited to the context of pleas not accepted."
Ibid.
But the Court in Frye and Lafler (and Hill, for that matter) did not purport to establish a "different" test for prejudice.
To the contrary, the Court repeatedly stated that it was applying the "same two-part standard" from Strickland.
Hill, supra, at 57 (emphasis added); accord, Frye, 566, U. S., at 140 ("Hill established that claims of ineffective assistance of counsel in the plea bargain context are governed by the two-part test set forth in Strickland"); Lafler, 566 U. S., at 162-163 (applying Strickland).
The majority today abandons any pretense of applying Strickland to claims of ineffective assistance of counsel that arise at the plea stage.
It instead concludes that one standard applies when a defendant goes to trial (Strickland); another standard applies when a defendant accepts a plea (Hill); and yet another standard applies when counsel does not apprise the defendant of an available plea or when the defendant rejects a plea (Frye and Lafler).
That approach leaves little doubt that the Court has "open[ed] a whole new field of constitutionalized criminal procedure"--"plea-bargaining law"--despite its repeated assurances that it has been applying the same Strickland standard all along.
Lafler, supra, at 175 (Scalia, J., dissenting).
In my view, we should take the Court's precedents at their word and conclude that "[a]n error by counsel . . . does not warrant setting aside the judgment of a criminal proceeding if the error had no effect on the judgment."
Strickland, 466, U. S., at 691.
III
Applying the ordinary Strickland standard in this case, I do not think a defendant in petitioner's circumstances could show a reasonable probability that the result of his criminal proceeding would have been different had he not pleaded guilty.
Petitioner does not dispute that he possessed large quantities of illegal drugs or that the Government had secured a witness who had purchased the drugs directly from him.
In light of this "overwhelming evidence of . . . guilt," 2014 WL 1260388, *15 (WD Tenn., Mar. 20, 2014), the Court of Appeals concluded that petitioner had "no bona fide defense, not even a weak one," 825 F. 3d 311, 316 (CA6 2016).
His only chance of succeeding would have been to "thro[w] a 'Hail Mary' at trial."
Ante, at 8.
As I have explained, however, the Court in Strickland expressly foreclosed relying on the possibility of a "Hail Mary" to establish prejudice.
See supra, at 3.
Strickland made clear that the prejudice assessment should "proceed on the assumption that the decisionmaker is reasonably, conscientiously, and impartially applying the standards that govern the decision."
466 U. S., at 695.
In the face of overwhelming evidence of guilt and in the absence of a bona fide defense, a reasonable court or jury applying the law to the facts of this case would find the defendant guilty.
There is no reasonable probability of any other verdict.
A defendant in petitioner's shoes, therefore, would have suffered the same deportation consequences regardless of whether he accepted a plea or went to trial.
He is thus plainly better off for having accepted his plea: had he gone to trial, he not only would have faced the same deportation consequences, he also likely would have received a higher prison sentence.
Finding that petitioner has established prejudice in these circumstances turns Strickland on its head.
IV
The Court's decision today will have pernicious consequences for the criminal justice system.
This Court has shown special solicitude for the plea process, which brings "stability" and "certainty" to "the criminal justice system."
Premo, 562 U. S., at 132.
The Court has warned that "the prospect of collateral challenges" threatens to undermine these important values.
Ibid.
And we have explained that "[p]rosecutors must have assurance that a plea will not be undone years later," lest they "forgo plea bargains that would benefit defendants," which would be "a result favorable to no one."
Id., at 125.
The Court today provides no assurance that plea deals negotiated in good faith with guilty defendants will remain final.
For one thing, the Court's artificially cabined standard for prejudice in the plea context is likely to generate a high volume of challenges to existing and future plea agreements.
Under the majority's standard, defendants bringing these challenges will bear a relatively low burden to show prejudice.
Whereas a defendant asserting an ordinary claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must prove that the ultimate outcome of his case would have been different, the Court today holds that a defendant who pleaded guilty need show only that he would have rejected his plea and gone to trial.
This standard does not appear to be particularly demanding, as even a defendant who has only the "smallest chance of success at trial"--relying on nothing more than a " 'Hail Mary' "--may be able to satisfy it.
Ante, at 7, 8.
For another, the Court does not limit its holding to immigration consequences.
Under its rule, so long as a defendant alleges that his counsel omitted or misadvised him on a piece of information during the plea process that he considered of "paramount importance," ante, at 10, he could allege a plausible claim of ineffective assistance of counsel.
In addition to undermining finality, the Court's rule will impose significant costs on courts and prosecutors.
Under the Court's standard, a challenge to a guilty plea will be a highly fact-intensive, defendant-specific undertaking.
Petitioner suggests that each claim will "at least" require a "hearing to get th[e] facts on the table."
Tr.
of Oral Arg.
7.
Given that more than 90 percent of criminal convictions are the result of guilty pleas, Frye, 566 U. S., at 143, the burden of holding evidentiary hearings on these claims could be significant.
In circumstances where a defendant has admitted his guilt, the evidence against him is overwhelming, and he has no bona fide defense strategy, I see no justification for imposing these costs.
*??*??*
For these reasons, I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
I respectfully dissent.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
The dissent also relies heavily on Missouri v. Frye, 566 U. S. 134 (2012), and Lafler v. Cooper, 566 U. S. 156 (2012).
Those cases involved defendants who alleged that, but for their attorney's incompetence, they would have accepted a plea deal--not, as here and as in Hill, that they would have rejected a plea.
In both Frye and Lafler, the Court highlighted this difference: Immediately following the sentence that the dissent plucks from Frye, post, at 5 (opinion of Thomas, J.), the Court explained that its "application of Strickland to the instances of an uncommunicated, lapsed plea does nothing to alter the standard laid out in Hill."
566 U. S., at 148 ("Hill was correctly decided and applies in the context in which it arose").
Lafler, decided the same day as Frye, reiterated that "[i]n contrast to Hill, here the ineffective advice led not to an offer's acceptance but to its rejection."
566 U. S., at 163.
Frye and Lafler articulated a different way to show prejudice, suited to the context of pleas not accepted, not an additional element to the Hill inquiry.
See Frye, 566 U. S., at 148 ("Hill does not . . . provide the sole means for demonstrating prejudice arising from the deficient performance of counsel during plea negotiations").
Contrary to the dissent's assertion, post, at 8-9, we do not depart from Strickland's requirement of prejudice.
The issue is how the required prejudice may be shown.
Footnote 2
Lee also argues that he can show prejudice because, had his attorney advised him that he would be deported if he accepted the Government's plea offer, he would have bargained for a plea deal that did not result in certain deportation.
Given our conclusion that Lee can show prejudice based on the reasonable probability that he would have gone to trial, we need not reach this argument.
Footnote 3
The dissent makes much of the fact that Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52 (1985), also noted that courts should ignore the "idiosyncrasies of the particular decisionmaker."
Post, at 7 (quoting Hill, 474 U. S., at 60; internal quotation marks omitted).
But Hill made this statement in discussing how courts should analyze "predictions of the outcome at a possible trial."
Id., at 59-60.
As we have explained, assessing the effect of some types of attorney errors on defendants' decisionmaking involves such predictions: Where an attorney error allegedly affects how a trial would have played out, we analyze that error's effects on a defendant's decisionmaking by making a prediction of the likely trial outcome.
But, as Hill recognized, such predictions will not always be "necessary."
Id., at 60.
Such a prediction is neither necessary nor appropriate where, as here, the error is one that is not alleged to be pertinent to a trial outcome, but is instead alleged to have affected a defendant's understanding of the consequences of his guilty plea.
Footnote 4
Several courts have noted that a judge's warnings at a plea colloquy may undermine a claim that the defendant was prejudiced by his attorney's misadvice.
See, e.g., United States v. Newman, 805 F. 3d 1143, 1147 (CADC 2015); United States v. Kayode, 777 F. 3d 719, 728-729 (CA5 2014); United States v. Akinsade, 686 F. 3d 248, 253 (CA4 2012); Boyd v. Yukins, 99 Fed.
Appx.
699, 705 (CA6 2004).
The present case involves a claim of ineffectiveness of counsel extending to advice specifically undermining the judge's warnings themselves, which the defendant contemporaneously stated on the record he did not understand.
There has been no suggestion here that the sentencing judge's statements at the plea colloquy cured any prejudice from the erroneous advice of Lee's counsel.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
* It is not enough for a defendant to show that he would have obtained a better plea agreement. "
[A] defendant has no right to be offered a plea," Missouri v. Frye, 566 U. S. 134, 148 (2012); Lafler v. Cooper, 566 U. S. 156, 168 (2012), and this Court has never concluded that a defendant could show a "reasonable probability" of a different result based on a purely hypothetical plea offer subject to absolute executive discretion.
JEFFERSON DUNN, COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS v. VERNON MADISON, (2017)
No. 17-193
Argued:     Decided: November 6, 2017
Per Curiam.
More than 30 years ago, Vernon Madison crept up behind police officer Julius Schulte and shot him twice in the head at close range.
An Alabama jury found Madison guilty of capital murder.
The trial court sentenced him to death.
See Ex parte Madison, 718 So.
2d 104, 105-106 (1998).
In 2016, as Madison's execution neared, he petitioned the trial court for a suspension of his death sentence.
He argued that, due to several recent strokes, he has become incompetent to be executed.
The court held a hearing to receive testimony from two psychologists who had examined Madison and prepared reports concerning his competence.
The court's appointed psychologist, Dr. Karl Kirkland, reported that, although Madison may have "suffered a significant decline post-stroke, . . . [he] understands the exact posture of his case at this point," and appears to have a "rational understanding of . . . the results or effects" of his death sentence.
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
75a (internal quotation marks omitted); Madison v. Commissioner, Ala.
Dept. of Corrections, 851 F. 3d 1173, 1193 (CA11 2017) (internal quotation marks omitted).
Asked at the hearing whether Madison understands that Alabama is seeking retribution against him for his criminal act, Dr. Kirkland answered, "Certainly."
Id., at 1180 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Dr. John Goff, a psychologist hired by Madison's counsel, reported that Madison's strokes have rendered him unable to remember "numerous events that have occurred over the past thirty years or more."
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
77a.
Nevertheless, Dr. Goff found that Madison "is able to understand the nature of the pending proceeding and he has an understanding of what he was tried for"; that he knows he is "in prison . . . because of 'murder' "; that he "understands that . . . [Alabama is] seeking retribution" for that crime; and that he "understands the sentence, specifically the meaning of a death sentence."
Id., at 76a-78a (some internal quotation marks omitted).
In Dr. Goff's opinion, however, Madison does not "understan[d] the act that . . . he is being punished for" because he cannot recall "the sequence of events from the offense to his arrest to the trial or any of those details" and believes that he "never went around killing folks."
Ibid.
(internal quotation marks omitted).
The trial court denied Madison's petition.
It held that, under this Court's decisions in Ford v. Wainwright, 477 U. S. 399 (1986), and Panetti v. Quarterman, 551 U. S. 930 (2007), Madison was entitled to relief if he could show that he "suffers from a mental illness which deprives [him] of the mental capacity to rationally understand that he is being executed as a punishment for a crime."
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
74a.
The court concluded that Madison had failed to make that showing.
Specifically, it found that Madison understands "that he is going to be executed because of the murder he committed[,] . . . that the State is seeking retribution[,] and that he will die when he is executed."
Id., at 82a.
Madison then filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in Federal District Court.
As a state prisoner, Madison is entitled to federal habeas relief under the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA) only if the state trial court's adjudication of his incompetence claim "was contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined by" this Court, or else was "based on an unreasonable determination of the facts in light of the evidence presented" in state court.
28 U. S. C. § 2254(d).
A habeas petitioner meets this demanding standard only when he shows that the state court's decision was "so lacking in justification that there was an error well understood and comprehended in existing law beyond any possibility for fairminded disagreement."
Harrington v. Richter, 562 U. S. 86, 103 (2011).
The District Court denied Madison's petition after concluding that the state court "correctly applied Ford and Panetti" and did not make an "unreasonable determination of the facts in light of the evidence."
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
67a.
The Eleventh Circuit granted a certificate of appealability and, on appeal, reversed over Judge Jordan's dissent.
In the majority's view, given the undisputed fact that Madison "has no memory of his capital offense," it inescapably follows that he "does not rationally understand the connection between his crime and his execution."
851 F. 3d, at 1185-1186.
On that basis, the Eleventh Circuit held that the trial court's conclusion that Madison is competent to be executed was "plainly unreasonable" and "cannot be reconciled with any reasonable application of Panetti."
Id., at 1187-1188 (internal quotation marks omitted).
We disagree.
In Panetti, this Court addressed the question whether the Eighth Amendment forbids the execution of a prisoner who lacks "the mental capacity to understand that [he] is being executed as a punishment for a crime."
551 U. S., at 954 (internal quotation marks omitted).
We noted that the retributive purpose of capital punishment is not well served where "the prisoner's mental state is so distorted by a mental illness that his awareness of the crime and punishment has little or no relationship to the understanding of those concepts shared by the community as a whole."
Id., at 958-959.
Similarly, in Ford, we questioned the "retributive value of executing a person who has no comprehension of why he has been singled out."
477 U. S., at 409.
Neither Panetti nor Ford "clearly established" that a prisoner is incompetent to be executed because of a failure to remember his commission of the crime, as distinct from a failure to rationally comprehend the concepts of crime and punishment as applied in his case.
The state court did not unreasonably apply Panetti and Ford when it determined that Madison is competent to be executed because--notwithstanding his memory loss--he recognizes that he will be put to death as punishment for the murder he was found to have committed.
Nor was the state court's decision founded on an unreasonable assessment of the evidence before it.
Testimony from each of the psychologists who examined Madison supported the court's finding that Madison understands both that he was tried and imprisoned for murder and that Alabama will put him to death as punishment for that crime.
In short, the state court's determinations of law and fact were not "so lacking in justification" as to give rise to error "beyond any possibility for fairminded disagreement."
Richter, supra, at 103.
Under that deferential standard, Madison's claim to federal habeas relief must fail.
We express no view on the merits of the underlying question outside of the AEDPA context.
The petition for a writ of certiorari and respondent's motion to proceed in forma pauperis are granted, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.
Ginsburg, J., concurring
583 U. S. ____ (2017)
JEFFERSON DUNN, COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS v.
VERNON MADISON
on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
No. 17-193.
Decided November 6, 2017
Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Sotomayor join, concurring.
The issue whether a State may administer the death penalty to a person whose disability leaves him without memory of his commission of a capital offense is a substantial question not yet addressed by the Court.
Appropriately presented, the issue would warrant full airing.
But in this case, the restraints imposed by the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, I agree, preclude consideration of the question.
With that understanding, I join the Court's per curiam disposition of this case.
Breyer, J., concurring
583 U. S. ____ (2017)
JEFFERSON DUNN, COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS v. VERNON MADISON
on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
No. 17-193.
Decided November 6, 2017
Justice Breyer, concurring.
I join the Court's per curiam disposition of this case for the reason set forth in Justice Ginsburg's concurrence (which I also join).
I write separately to underline the fact that this case illustrates one of the basic problems with the administration of the death penalty itself.
That problem concerns the unconscionably long periods of time that prisoners often spend on death row awaiting execution.
See Glossip v. Gross, 576 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2015) (Breyer, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 2, 17-33).
As I have previously noted, this Court once said that delays in execution can produce uncertainty amounting to " 'one of the most horrible feelings to which' " a prisoner " 'can be subjected.' "
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 20) (quoting In re Medley, 134 U. S. 160, 172 (1890)).
Justice Stevens later observed that the delay in Medley was a delay of four weeks.
Lackey v. Texas, 514 U. S. 1045, 1046 (1995) (memorandum respecting denial of certiorari).
And he wrote that the Medley description "should apply with even greater force in the case of delays that last for many years."
514 U. S., at 1046.
In light of those statements, consider the present case.
The respondent, Vernon Madison, was convicted of a murder that took place in April 1985.
He was sentenced to death and transferred to Alabama's William C. Holman Correctional Facility in September 1985.
Mr. Madison is now 67 years old.
He has lived nearly half of his life on death row.
During that time, he has suffered severe strokes, which caused vascular dementia and numerous other significant physical and mental problems.
He is legally blind.
His speech is slurred.
He cannot walk independently.
He is incontinent.
His disability leaves him without a memory of his commission of a capital offense.
Moreover, Mr. Madison is one among a growing number of aging prisoners who remain on death row in this country for ever longer periods of time.
In 1987, the average period of imprisonment between death sentence and execution was just over seven years.
See Dept. of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics, T. Snell, Capital Punishment, 2013--Statistical Tables 14 (rev. Dec. 19, 2014) (Table 10).
A decade later, in 1997, the average delay was about 11 years.
Ibid.
In 2007, the average delay rose to a little less than 13 years.
Ibid.
In 2017, the 21 individuals who have been executed were on death row on average for more than 19 years.
See Death Penalty Information Center, Execution List 2017, online at https://deathpenaltyinfo.org/ execution-list-2017 (as last visited Nov. 3, 2017).
Alabama has executed three individuals this year, including Thomas Arthur, who spent 34 years on death row before his execution on May 26, 2017, at the age of 75; Robert Melson, who spent 21 years on death row before his execution on June 8, 2017; and Torrey McNabb, who spent nearly two decades on death row before his execution on October 19, 2017.
Given this trend, we may face ever more instances of state efforts to execute prisoners suffering the diseases and infirmities of old age.
And we may well have to consider the ways in which lengthy periods of imprisonment between death sentence and execution can deepen the cruelty of the death penalty while at the same time undermining its penological rationale.
Glossip, supra, at ___-___ (Breyer, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 17-18) (recognizing the inevitability of delays in light of constitutional requirements needed to ensure procedural and substantive validity of death sentences); see ante, at 1 (Ginsburg, J., concurring).
Rather than develop a constitutional jurisprudence that focuses upon the special circumstances of the aged, however, I believe it would be wiser to reconsider the root cause of the problem--the constitutionality of the death penalty itself.
Glossip, supra, at ___ (Breyer, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 1).
JEFFERSON DUNN, COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS v. VERNON MADISON
on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
No. 17-193.
Decided November 6, 2017
Per Curiam.
More than 30 years ago, Vernon Madison crept up behind police officer Julius Schulte and shot him twice in the head at close range.
An Alabama jury found Madison guilty of capital murder.
The trial court sentenced him to death.
See Ex parte Madison, 718 So.
2d 104, 105-106 (1998).
In 2016, as Madison's execution neared, he petitioned the trial court for a suspension of his death sentence.
He argued that, due to several recent strokes, he has become incompetent to be executed.
The court held a hearing to receive testimony from two psychologists who had examined Madison and prepared reports concerning his competence.
The court's appointed psychologist, Dr. Karl Kirkland, reported that, although Madison may have "suffered a significant decline post-stroke, . . . [he] understands the exact posture of his case at this point," and appears to have a "rational understanding of . . . the results or effects" of his death sentence.
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
75a (internal quotation marks omitted); Madison v. Commissioner, Ala.
Dept. of Corrections, 851 F. 3d 1173, 1193 (CA11 2017) (internal quotation marks omitted).
Asked at the hearing whether Madison understands that Alabama is seeking retribution against him for his criminal act, Dr. Kirkland answered, "Certainly."
Id., at 1180 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Dr. John Goff, a psychologist hired by Madison's counsel, reported that Madison's strokes have rendered him unable to remember "numerous events that have occurred over the past thirty years or more."
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
77a.
Nevertheless, Dr. Goff found that Madison "is able to understand the nature of the pending proceeding and he has an understanding of what he was tried for"; that he knows he is "in prison . . . because of 'murder' "; that he "understands that . . . [Alabama is] seeking retribution" for that crime; and that he "understands the sentence, specifically the meaning of a death sentence."
Id., at 76a-78a (some internal quotation marks omitted).
In Dr. Goff's opinion, however, Madison does not "understan[d] the act that . . . he is being punished for" because he cannot recall "the sequence of events from the offense to his arrest to the trial or any of those details" and believes that he "never went around killing folks."
Ibid.
(internal quotation marks omitted).
The trial court denied Madison's petition.
It held that, under this Court's decisions in Ford v. Wainwright, 477 U. S. 399 (1986), and Panetti v. Quarterman, 551 U. S. 930 (2007), Madison was entitled to relief if he could show that he "suffers from a mental illness which deprives [him] of the mental capacity to rationally understand that he is being executed as a punishment for a crime."
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
74a.
The court concluded that Madison had failed to make that showing.
Specifically, it found that Madison understands "that he is going to be executed because of the murder he committed[,] . . . that the State is seeking retribution[,] and that he will die when he is executed."
Id., at 82a.
Madison then filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in Federal District Court.
As a state prisoner, Madison is entitled to federal habeas relief under the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA) only if the state trial court's adjudication of his incompetence claim "was contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined by" this Court, or else was "based on an unreasonable determination of the facts in light of the evidence presented" in state court.
28 U. S. C. § 2254(d).
A habeas petitioner meets this demanding standard only when he shows that the state court's decision was "so lacking in justification that there was an error well understood and comprehended in existing law beyond any possibility for fairminded disagreement."
Harrington v. Richter, 562 U. S. 86, 103 (2011).
The District Court denied Madison's petition after concluding that the state court "correctly applied Ford and Panetti" and did not make an "unreasonable determination of the facts in light of the evidence."
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
67a.
The Eleventh Circuit granted a certificate of appealability and, on appeal, reversed over Judge Jordan's dissent.
In the majority's view, given the undisputed fact that Madison "has no memory of his capital offense," it inescapably follows that he "does not rationally understand the connection between his crime and his execution."
851 F. 3d, at 1185-1186.
On that basis, the Eleventh Circuit held that the trial court's conclusion that Madison is competent to be executed was "plainly unreasonable" and "cannot be reconciled with any reasonable application of Panetti."
Id., at 1187-1188 (internal quotation marks omitted).
We disagree.
In Panetti, this Court addressed the question whether the Eighth Amendment forbids the execution of a prisoner who lacks "the mental capacity to understand that [he] is being executed as a punishment for a crime."
551 U. S., at 954 (internal quotation marks omitted).
We noted that the retributive purpose of capital punishment is not well served where "the prisoner's mental state is so distorted by a mental illness that his awareness of the crime and punishment has little or no relationship to the understanding of those concepts shared by the community as a whole."
Id., at 958-959.
Similarly, in Ford, we questioned the "retributive value of executing a person who has no comprehension of why he has been singled out."
477 U. S., at 409.
Neither Panetti nor Ford "clearly established" that a prisoner is incompetent to be executed because of a failure to remember his commission of the crime, as distinct from a failure to rationally comprehend the concepts of crime and punishment as applied in his case.
The state court did not unreasonably apply Panetti and Ford when it determined that Madison is competent to be executed because--notwithstanding his memory loss--he recognizes that he will be put to death as punishment for the murder he was found to have committed.
Nor was the state court's decision founded on an unreasonable assessment of the evidence before it.
Testimony from each of the psychologists who examined Madison supported the court's finding that Madison understands both that he was tried and imprisoned for murder and that Alabama will put him to death as punishment for that crime.
In short, the state court's determinations of law and fact were not "so lacking in justification" as to give rise to error "beyond any possibility for fairminded disagreement."
Richter, supra, at 103.
Under that deferential standard, Madison's claim to federal habeas relief must fail.
We express no view on the merits of the underlying question outside of the AEDPA context.
The petition for a writ of certiorari and respondent's motion to proceed in forma pauperis are granted, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.
Ginsburg, J., concurring
583 U. S. ____ (2017)
JEFFERSON DUNN, COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS v. VERNON MADISON
on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
No. 17-193.
Decided November 6, 2017
Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Sotomayor join, concurring.
The issue whether a State may administer the death penalty to a person whose disability leaves him without memory of his commission of a capital offense is a substantial question not yet addressed by the Court.
Appropriately presented, the issue would warrant full airing.
But in this case, the restraints imposed by the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, I agree, preclude consideration of the question.
With that understanding, I join the Court's per curiam disposition of this case.
Breyer, J., concurring
583 U. S. ____ (2017)
JEFFERSON DUNN, COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS v. VERNON MADISON
on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
No. 17-193.
Decided November 6, 2017
Justice Breyer, concurring.
I join the Court's per curiam disposition of this case for the reason set forth in Justice Ginsburg's concurrence (which I also join).
I write separately to underline the fact that this case illustrates one of the basic problems with the administration of the death penalty itself.
That problem concerns the unconscionably long periods of time that prisoners often spend on death row awaiting execution.
See Glossip v. Gross, 576 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2015) (Breyer, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 2, 17-33).
As I have previously noted, this Court once said that delays in execution can produce uncertainty amounting to " 'one of the most horrible feelings to which' " a prisoner " 'can be subjected.' "
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 20) (quoting In re Medley, 134 U. S. 160, 172 (1890)).
Justice Stevens later observed that the delay in Medley was a delay of four weeks.
Lackey v. Texas, 514 U. S. 1045, 1046 (1995) (memorandum respecting denial of certiorari).
And he wrote that the Medley description "should apply with even greater force in the case of delays that last for many years."
514 U. S., at 1046.
In light of those statements, consider the present case.
The respondent, Vernon Madison, was convicted of a murder that took place in April 1985.
He was sentenced to death and transferred to Alabama's William C. Holman Correctional Facility in September 1985.
Mr. Madison is now 67 years old.
He has lived nearly half of his life on death row.
During that time, he has suffered severe strokes, which caused vascular dementia and numerous other significant physical and mental problems.
He is legally blind.
His speech is slurred.
He cannot walk independently.
He is incontinent.
His disability leaves him without a memory of his commission of a capital offense.
Moreover, Mr. Madison is one among a growing number of aging prisoners who remain on death row in this country for ever longer periods of time.
In 1987, the average period of imprisonment between death sentence and execution was just over seven years.
See Dept. of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics, T. Snell, Capital Punishment, 2013--Statistical Tables 14 (rev. Dec. 19, 2014) (Table 10).
A decade later, in 1997, the average delay was about 11 years.
Ibid.
In 2007, the average delay rose to a little less than 13 years.
Ibid.
In 2017, the 21 individuals who have been executed were on death row on average for more than 19 years.
See Death Penalty Information Center, Execution List 2017, online at https://deathpenaltyinfo.org/ execution-list-2017 (as last visited Nov. 3, 2017).
Alabama has executed three individuals this year, including Thomas Arthur, who spent 34 years on death row before his execution on May 26, 2017, at the age of 75; Robert Melson, who spent 21 years on death row before his execution on June 8, 2017; and Torrey McNabb, who spent nearly two decades on death row before his execution on October 19, 2017.
Given this trend, we may face ever more instances of state efforts to execute prisoners suffering the diseases and infirmities of old age.
And we may well have to consider the ways in which lengthy periods of imprisonment between death sentence and execution can deepen the cruelty of the death penalty while at the same time undermining its penological rationale.
Glossip, supra, at ___-___ (Breyer, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 17-18) (recognizing the inevitability of delays in light of constitutional requirements needed to ensure procedural and substantive validity of death sentences); see ante, at 1 (Ginsburg, J., concurring).
Rather than develop a constitutional jurisprudence that focuses upon the special circumstances of the aged, however, I believe it would be wiser to reconsider the root cause of the problem--the constitutionality of the death penalty itself.
Glossip, supra, at ___ (Breyer, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 1).
KEITH THARPE v. ERIC SELLERS, WARDEN, (2018)
No. 17-6075
Argued:     Decided: January 8, 2018
Per Curiam.
Petitioner Keith Tharpe moved to reopen his federal habeas corpus proceedings regarding his claim that the Georgia jury that convicted him of murder included a white juror, Barney Gattie, who was biased against Tharpe because he is black.
See Fed.
Rule Civ.
Proc.
60(b)(6).
The District Court denied the motion on the ground that, among other things, Tharpe's claim was procedurally defaulted in state court.
The District Court also noted that Tharpe could not overcome that procedural default because he had failed to produce any clear and convincing evidence contradicting the state court's determination that Gattie's presence on the jury did not prejudice him.
See Tharpe v. Warden, No. 5:10-cv-433 (MD Ga., Sept. 5, 2017), App.
B to Pet.
for Cert.
19.
Tharpe sought a certificate of appealability (COA).
The Eleventh Circuit denied his COA application after deciding that jurists of reason could not dispute that the District Court's procedural ruling was correct.
See Tharpe v. Warden, 2017 WL 4250413, *3 (Sept. 21, 2017).
The Eleventh Circuit's decision, as we read it, was based solely on its conclusion, rooted in the state court's factfinding, that Tharpe had failed to show prejudice in connection with his procedurally defaulted claim, i.e., that Tharpe had "failed to demonstrate that Barney Gattie's behavior 'had substantial and injurious effect or influence in determining the jury's verdict.' "
Ibid.
(quoting Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619, 637 (1993)).
Our review of the record compels a different conclusion.
The state court's prejudice determination rested on its finding that Gattie's vote to impose the death penalty was not based on Tharpe's race.
See Tharpe v. Warden, No. 93-cv-144 (Super.
Ct.
Butts Cty., Ga., Dec. 1, 2008), App.
F to Pet.
for Cert.
102.
And that factual determination is binding on federal courts, including this Court, in the absence of clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.
See 28 U. S. C. §2254(e)(1).
Here, however, Tharpe produced a sworn affidavit, signed by Gattie, indicating Gattie's view that "there are two types of black people: 1.
Black folks and 2.
Niggers"; that Tharpe, "who wasn't in the 'good' black folks category in my book, should get the electric chair for what he did"; that "[s]ome of the jurors voted for death because they felt Tharpe should be an example to other blacks who kill blacks, but that wasn't my reason"; and that, "[a]fter studying the Bible, I have wondered if black people even have souls."
App.
B to Pet.
for Cert.
15-16 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Gattie's remarkable affidavit--which he never retracted--presents a strong factual basis for the argument that Tharpe's race affected Gattie's vote for a death verdict.
At the very least, jurists of reason could debate whether Tharpe has shown by clear and convincing evidence that the state court's factual determination was wrong.
The Eleventh Circuit erred when it concluded otherwise.
The question of prejudice--the ground on which the Eleventh Circuit chose to dispose of Tharpe's application--is not the only question relevant to the broader inquiry whether Tharpe should receive a COA.
The District Court denied Tharpe's Rule 60(b) motion on several grounds not addressed by the Eleventh Circuit.
We express no view of those issues here.
In light of the standard for relief from judgment under Rule 60(b)(6), which is available only in " 'extraordinary circumstances,' " Gonzalez v. Crosby, 545 U. S. 524, 536 (2005), Tharpe faces a high bar in showing that jurists of reason could disagree whether the District Court abused its discretion in denying his motion.
It may be that, at the end of the day, Tharpe should not receive a COA.
And review of the denial of a COA is certainly not limited to grounds expressly addressed by the court whose decision is under review.
But on the unusual facts of this case, the Court of Appeals' review should not have rested on the ground that it was indisputable among reasonable jurists that Gattie's service on the jury did not prejudice Tharpe.
We therefore grant Tharpe's motion to proceed in forma pauperis, grant the petition for certiorari, vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals, and remand the case for further consideration of the question whether Tharpe is entitled to a COA.
It is so ordered.
Thomas, J., dissenting
583 U. S. ____ (2018)
KEITH THARPE v. ERIC SELLERS, WARDEN
on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
No. 17-6075.
Decided January 8, 2018
Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito and Justice Gorsuch join, dissenting.
If bad facts make bad law, then "unusual facts" inspire unusual decisions.
Ante, at 3.
In its brief per curiam opinion, the Court misreads a lower court's opinion to find an error that is not there, and then refuses to entertain alternative grounds for affirmance.
The Court does this to accomplish little more than a do-over in the Court of Appeals: As it concedes, petitioner Keith Tharpe faces a "high bar" on remand to obtain even a certificate of appealability (COA).
Ante, at 2.
One might wonder why the Court engages in this pointless exercise.
The only possible explanation is its concern with the "unusual facts" of this case, specifically a juror affidavit that expresses racist opinions about blacks.
The opinions in the affidavit are certainly odious.
But their odiousness does not excuse us from doing our job correctly, or allow us to pretend that the lower courts have not done theirs.
The responsibility of courts is to decide cases, both usual and unusual, by neutrally applying the law.
The law reflects society's considered judgments about the balance of competing interests, and we must respect those judgments.
In bending the rules here to show its concern for a black capital inmate, the Court must think it is showing its concern for racial justice.
It is not.
Its summary vacatur will not stop Tharpe's execution or erase the "unusual fac[t]" of the affidavit.
It will only delay justice for Jaquelin Freeman, who was also black, who is ignored by the majority, and who was murdered by Tharpe 27 years ago.
I respectfully dissent.
I
The Court's terse opinion tells the reader that this case involves a petitioner, a juror, an affidavit, and a prejudice determination.
But it involves much more than that.
This case also has a victim, a second affidavit, numerous depositions, factfinding by a state court, and several decisions from federal judges that provide multiple grounds for denying a COA.
I will briefly provide this omitted context.
A
Keith Tharpe's wife, Migrisus, left him in 1990.
Despite a no-contact order, Tharpe called her and told her that if she wanted to " 'play dirty' " he would show her " 'what dirty was.' "
Tharpe v. Warden, 834 F. 3d 1323, 1325 (CA11 2016).
The next morning, Tharpe ambushed his wife and her sister, Jaquelin Freeman, as they drove to work, pulling his truck in front of their car and forcing them to stop.
Tharpe aimed a shotgun at the car and ordered his wife to get into his truck.
He then told Freeman that he was going to " 'f-- [her] up' " and took her to the rear of his truck.
Ibid.
Tharpe shot Freeman, rolled her body into a ditch, reloaded, and shot her again, killing her.
After murdering Freeman, Tharpe kidnaped and raped his wife, leaving Freeman's body lying in the ditch.
Freeman's husband found her a short time later, while driving their children to school.
A jury convicted Tharpe of malice murder and two counts of aggravated kidnaping.
After hearing the evidence, the jury needed less than two hours to return a unanimous sentence of death.
As aggravating factors, the jury found that Tharpe murdered Freeman while committing two other capital felonies--the aggravated kidnapings of his wife and Freeman--and that the murder was outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible, or inhuman.
B
More than seven years after his trial, Tharpe's lawyers interviewed one of his jurors, Barney Gattie.
The resulting affidavit stated that Gattie knew Freeman, and that her family was "what [he] would call a nice [b]lack family."
Tharpe v. Warden, No. 5:10-cv-433 (MD Ga., Sept. 5, 2017), App.
B to Pet.
for Cert.
15.
The affidavit continued that, in Gattie's view, "there are two types of black people: 1.
Black folks and 2.
Niggers."
Ibid.
Tharpe "wasn't in the 'good' black folks category," according to the affidavit, and if Freeman had been "the type Tharpe is, then picking between life and death for Tharpe wouldn't have mattered so much."
Id., at 16.
But because Freeman and her family were "good black folks," the affidavit continued, Gattie thought Tharpe "should get the electric chair for what he did."
Ibid.
Gattie's affidavit went on to explain that "[a]fter studying the Bible," he had "wondered if black people even have souls."
Ibid.
The affidavit also noted that some of the other jurors "wanted blacks to know they weren't going to get away with killing each other."
Ibid.
A couple of days later, the State obtained another affidavit from Gattie.
In that second affidavit, Gattie stated that he "did not vote to impose the death penalty because [Tharpe] was a black man," but instead because the evidence presented at trial justified it and because Tharpe showed no remorse.
Record in No. 5:10-cv-433 (MD Ga., June 21, 2017) (Record), Doc.
77-3, p. 2.
The affidavit explained that Gattie had consumed "seven or more beers" on the afternoon he signed the first affidavit.
Ibid.
Although he had signed it, he "never swore to [it] nor was [he] ever asked if [the] statement was true and accurate."
Id., at 3.
He also attested that many of the statements in the first affidavit "were taken out of context and simply not accurate."
Ibid.
And he felt that the lawyers who took it "were deceiving and misrepresented what they stood for."
Id., at 5.
A state postconviction court presided over Gattie's deposition.
Gattie again testified that, although he signed the affidavit, he did not swear to its contents.
Gattie also testified that when he signed the affidavit he had consumed "[m]aybe a 12 pack, [and] a few drinks of whiskey, over the period of the day."
Id., Doc.
15-8, p. 80.
Tharpe's lawyers did not question Gattie about the contents of his first affidavit at the deposition.
They instead spent much of the deposition asking Gattie unrelated questions about race, which the state court ruled irrelevant--like whether he was familiar with Uncle Tom's Cabin or whether his granddaughter would play with a black doll.
The lawyers' failure to address the contents of Gattie's first affidavit troubled the state court.
Just before it permitted Gattie to leave, the court advised Tharpe's lawyers that it might "totally discoun[t]" Gattie's first affidavit, and it again invited them to ask Gattie questions about its contents.
Id., at 105.
Tharpe's lawyers declined the opportunity.
The state court also heard deposition testimony from ten of Tharpe's other jurors and received an affidavit from the eleventh.
None of the jurors, two of whom were black, corroborated the statements in Gattie's first affidavit about how some of the jurors had considered race.
The ten jurors who testified all said that race played no role in the jury's deliberations.
The eleventh juror did not mention any consideration of race either.
C
Tharpe sought state postconviction relief.
One of his claims was that "improper racial animus . . . infected the deliberations of the jury."
Tharpe v. Warden, 2017 WL 4250413, *1 (CA11, Sept. 21, 2017).
The state court rejected this claim for two reasons.
First, Tharpe could not prove juror misconduct because Georgia law did not allow parties to impeach a jury verdict with post-trial testimony from jurors.
Tharpe v. Warden, No. 93-cv-144 (Super.
Ct.
Butts Cty., Ga., Dec. 1, 2008), App.
F to Pet.
for Cert.
99-101.
Second, Tharpe had procedurally defaulted his claim because he had failed to raise it on direct appeal, and he could not establish cause and prejudice to overcome that default.
Id., at 102.
Tharpe's allegation of ineffective assistance of counsel was insufficient to establish cause because he had "failed to establish the requisite deficiency or prejudice."
Ibid.
And Tharpe failed to establish prejudice because the state court credited Gattie's testimony that he had not relied on race when voting to sentence Tharpe.
Id., at 102-103.
D
Tharpe then raised his juror-bias claim in a federal petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
The United States District Court for the Middle District of Georgia denied his claim as procedurally defaulted.
The District Court acknowledged that ineffective assistance of counsel can provide cause to overcome a procedural default, but it explained that Tharpe "fail[ed] to provide any details regarding this allegation."
2017 WL 4250413, *2.
The District Court concluded that Tharpe "ha[d] not established that his counsels' ineffectiveness constituted cause to overcome the procedural defaul[t]" and that he "failed to show actual prejudice."
Ibid.
Tharpe did not seek a COA on his juror-bias claim.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed the District Court's decision, Tharpe, 834 F. 3d 1323, and this Court denied certiorari, Tharpe v. Sellers, 582 U. S. ___ (2017).
In June 2017, Tharpe moved to reopen his federal habeas proceedings under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b).
He pointed to this Court's recent decisions in Buck v. Davis, 580 U. S. ___ (2017), and Pena-Rodriguez v. Colorado, 580 U. S. ___ (2017), as extraordinary circumstances that entitled him to relief.
According to Tharpe, Buck established that extraordinary circumstances are present when a defendant was sentenced due to his race and new law provides an opportunity to consider the merits of his previously defaulted, race-based sentencing claim.
Pena-Rodriguez supplied that new law, Tharpe argued, because it held that a state no-impeachment rule must yield when there is a "clear statement that indicates [a juror] relied on racial stereotypes or animus to convict a criminal defendant."
580 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17).
The District Court denied Tharpe's motion.
It first explained that Pena-Rodriguez announced a new procedural rule that does not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.
App.
B to Pet.
for Cert.
6-14.
It alternatively deferred to the state court's finding that Tharpe could not prove cause or prejudice to overcome his procedural default.
Id., at 18-21.
After the depositions of Gattie and ten other jurors, the state court credited Gattie's testimony that he did not vote for death based on race.
Id., at 21.
The District Court deferred to that credibility determination, and nothing in Pena-Rodriguez undermined that determination.
App.
B to Pet.
for Cert.
19-21.
The Eleventh Circuit denied a COA.
It explained that the District Court had concluded in its first decision that Tharpe failed to prove cause and prejudice.
2017 WL 4250413, *2.
The District Court had later rejected Tharpe's Rule 60(b) motion both because Pena-Rodriguez was not retroactively applicable on federal collateral review and because it "presumed the correctness" of the state court's finding that Tharpe failed to " 'establish cause and prejudice.' "
2017 WL 4250413, *2.
The Eleventh Circuit then offered two reasons why Tharpe was not entitled to a COA.
First, Tharpe had not " 'made a substantial showing of the denial of a constitutional right.' "
Id., at *3 (quoting 28 U. S. C. §2253(c)(2)).
"As the [state court] and the District Court found, Tharpe failed to demonstrate that Barney Gattie's behavior 'had substantial and injurious effect or influence in determining the jury's verdict.' "
2017 WL 4250413, *3 (quoting Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619, 637 (1993)).
"Nor," the Eleventh Circuit continued, "has Tharpe shown that 'jurists of reason would find it debatable whether the district court was correct in its procedural ruling.' "
2017 WL 4250413, *3 (quoting Slack v. McDaniel, 529 U. S. 473, 484 (2000)).1
Shortly before his execution, Tharpe filed a petition for a writ of certiorari and a stay application with this Court.
We issued a stay.
II
To obtain a COA, Tharpe must show "that jurists of reason would find it debatable whether the petition states a valid claim of the denial of a constitutional right" and "that jurists of reason would find it debatable whether the district court was correct in its procedural ruling."
Id., at 484.
The Court is not willing to say that Tharpe can satisfy this standard.
See ante, at 3 ("It may be that, at the end of the day, Tharpe should not receive a COA").
Instead, its opinion makes two moves.
First, it "read[s]" the decision below as resting "solely" on Tharpe's "fail[ure] to show prejudice" to overcome his procedural default.
Ante, at 1.
It does not read the decision as reaching cause, and it declines to consider that or any other alternative reason to affirm the Eleventh Circuit.
See ante, at 1-2.
Second, the Court holds, contrary to the Eleventh Circuit, that jurists of reason could debate whether Tharpe has proven prejudice.
See ante, at 2.
Neither of the Court's moves is justified.
A
1
The majority misreads the decision below as resting "solely" on prejudice.
See ante, at 1.
The Eleventh Circuit addressed cause as well.
The Eleventh Circuit first held that Tharpe had failed to make a " 'substantial showing of the denial of a constitutional right,' " explaining that he had "failed to demonstrate that . . . Gattie's behavior 'had substantial and injurious effect or influence in determining the jury's verdict.' "
2017 WL 4250413, *3 (quoting Brecht, supra, at 637).
Then the Eleventh Circuit alternatively held that Tharpe had not "shown that 'jurists of reason would find it debatable whether the district court was correct in its procedural ruling.' "
2017 WL 4250413, *3 (quoting Slack, supra, at 484).
The "procedural ruling" of the District Court rested on both cause and prejudice--as the Eleventh Circuit explained earlier in its opinion, quoting the District Court at length.
See 2017 WL 4250413, *2.
Indeed, neither party suggests that the Eleventh Circuit's decision did not reach cause, and both parties briefed the issue to this Court.
See Brief in Opposition 16-17; Reply Brief 7-8.
The Court's reading of the decision below is untenable.
Even if its reading were tenable, the Court does not explain why the strong medicine of a summary disposition is warranted here.
Summary decisions are "rare" and "usually reserved by this Court for situations in which . . . the decision below is clearly in error."
Schweiker v. Hansen, 450 U. S. 785, 791 (1981) (Marshall, J., dissenting).
The majority's reading of the decision below is not the better one, much less the clearly correct one.
By adopting the least charitable reading of the Eleventh Circuit's decision, the majority "disrespects the judges of the courts of appeals, who are appointed and confirmed as we are."
Wellons v. Hall, 558 U. S. 220, 228 (2010) (Scalia, J., dissenting).
This Court should not "vacate and send back their authorized judgments for inconsequential imperfection of opinion--as though we were schoolmasters grading their homework."
Ibid.
In fact, "[a]n appropriately self-respecting response to today's summary vacatur would be summary reissuance of the same opinion," ibid., with a sentence clarifying that the Eleventh Circuit agrees with the District Court's decision on cause.
2
Putting aside its misreading of the decision below, the Court inexplicably declines to consider alternative grounds for affirmance.
The Court acknowledges that our review "is certainly not limited to grounds expressly addressed by the court whose decision is under review."
Ante, at 3.
But the Court does not explain why it nonetheless limits itself to the question of prejudice.
The Court's self-imposed limitation is inexcusable given that Tharpe's collateral challenges to his sentence have lasted 24 years, the Court's failure to consider alternative grounds has halted an imminent execution, the alternative grounds were reached below, several of them were briefed here, and many of them are obviously correct.
In fact, the District Court identified two grounds for denying Tharpe relief that no reasonable jurist could debate.
First, no reasonable jurist could argue that Pena-Rodriguez applies retroactively on collateral review.
Pena-Rodriguez established a new rule: The opinion states that it is answering a question "left open" by this Court's earlier precedents.
580 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 13).
A new rule does not apply retroactively unless it is substantive or a "watershed rul[e] of criminal procedure."
Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288, 311 (1989) (plurality opinion).
Since Pena-Rodriguez permits a trial court "to consider [certain] evidence," 580 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17), and does not "alte[r] the range of conduct or the class of persons that the law punishes," Schriro v. Summerlin, 542 U. S. 348, 353 (2004), it cannot be a substantive rule.2 And Tharpe does not even attempt to argue that Pena-Rodriguez established a watershed rule of criminal procedure--a class of rules that is so "narrow" that it is " 'unlikely that any has yet to emerge.' "
Schriro, supra, at 352 (quoting Tyler v. Cain, 533 U. S. 656, 667, n. 7 (2001); alterations omitted).
Nor could he.
Not even the right to have a jury decide a defendant's eligibility for death counts as a watershed rule of criminal procedure.
Schriro, supra, at 355-358.3
Second, no reasonable jurist could argue that Tharpe demonstrated cause for his procedural default.
The only cause that Tharpe raised in state court was ineffective assistance of counsel.
The state court rejected this claim because Tharpe presented only a conclusory allegation to support it.
No reasonable jurist could debate that decision.
Nor could a reasonable jurist debate the cause argument that Tharpe raises here.
In his reply brief in support of certiorari in this Court, Tharpe argues that he did not have to raise his claim of juror bias on direct appeal.
Reply Brief 7-8.
But Tharpe never raised this argument in state court, so the state court did not err in failing to accept it.
Nor did the District Court abuse its discretion in failing to address it, since Tharpe merely mentioned it in a footnote in his reply brief where he was explaining the state court's decision.
And even if Tharpe's description of Georgia law is correct and relevant in a federal habeas proceeding, he offers no explanation for why he waited seven years after his trial to obtain Gattie's affidavit.
See Fults v. GDCP Warden, 764 F. 3d 1311, 1317 (CA11 2014).
In short, Tharpe has not offered a viable argument on cause in any court.
B
On the one issue it does address--prejudice--the Court falters again.
Its conclusion that reasonable jurists could debate prejudice plows through three levels of deference.
First, it ignores the deference that appellate courts must give to trial courts' findings on questions of juror bias.
See Skilling v. United States, 561 U. S. 358, 396 (2010) ("In reviewing claims [of juror bias], the deference due to district courts is at its pinnacle: 'A trial court's findings of juror impartiality may be overturned only for manifest error' " (quoting Mu'Min v. Virginia, 500 U. S. 415, 428 (1991))).
Then, it ignores the deference that federal habeas courts must give to state courts' factual findings.
See 28 U. S. C. §2254(e)(1).
Finally, it ignores the deference that federal appellate courts must give to federal district courts' discretionary decisions under Rule 60(b).
See Browder v. Director, Dept. of Corrections of Ill., 434 U. S. 257, 263, n. 7 (1978).
With all this deference, no reasonable jurist could debate the question of prejudice.
The state court's finding that Tharpe "failed to show that any alleged racial bias of Mr. Gattie's was the basis for sentencing" him, App.
F to Pet.
for Cert.
102, was supported by ample evidence.
Gattie testified in his second affidavit that he did not impose a death sentence because of Tharpe's race.
He also denied having sworn to the first affidavit and explained that he had consumed a substantial amount of alcohol on the day he signed it.
Gattie's testimony was consistent with the testimony of the other ten jurors deposed in front of the trial court, each of whom testified that they did not consider race and that race was not discussed during their deliberations.
To be sure, there was some evidence cutting the other way--most notably, Gattie's first affidavit.
But the state court heard all of the evidence, saw the witnesses' demeanor, and decided to credit Gattie's testimony that he did not vote for the death penalty because of Tharpe's race.
Even if we were reviewing the state court directly, its finding would be entitled to substantial deference.
See Skilling, supra, at 396.
But we are not reviewing the state court directly.
Instead, the relevant question is whether a reasonable jurist could argue that the District Court abused its discretion by concluding that the state court's decision to credit Gattie's testimony has not been rebutted by clear and convincing evidence.
Even if "[r]easonable minds reviewing the record might disagree about" the evidence, "on habeas review that does not suffice to supersede the [state] court's credibility determination."
Rice v. Collins, 546 U. S. 333, 341-342 (2006).
And even if we might have made a different call, abuse-of-discretion review means we cannot "substitute [our] judgment for that of the district court."
Horne v. Flores, 557 U. S. 433, 493 (2009) (Breyer, J., dissenting).
Under these standards, no reasonable jurist could argue that Tharpe rebutted the state court's decision by clear and convincing evidence, much less that the District Court's deference to the state court's credibility determination was an abuse of discretion.
III
The Court is cognizant of the weakness of Tharpe's claims.
It openly anticipates that he will not be able to obtain a COA, which makes sense given the insurmountable barriers he faces on remand.
Moreover, the Court's preliminary decision that reasonable jurists could debate prejudice says little about how a court of appeals could ever rule in Tharpe's favor on the merits of that question, given the multiple levels of deference that apply.
At most, then, the Court's decision merely delays Tharpe's inevitable execution.
The Court tries to justify its decision "on the unusual facts of this case."
Ante, at 3.
But there is nothing unusual about deferring to a district court's decision to defer to a state court's credibility findings.
This case involves a mine-run denial of a COA by a lower court on the eve of an execution, one that this Court routinely denies certiorari to address.
Today's decision can be explained only by the "unusual fac[t]" of Gattie's first affidavit.
Ibid.
The Court must be disturbed by the racist rhetoric in that affidavit, and must want to do something about it.
But the Court's decision is no profile in moral courage.
By remanding this case to the Court of Appeals for a useless do-over, the Court is not doing Tharpe any favors.
And its unusual disposition of his case callously delays justice for Jaquelin Freeman, the black woman who was brutally murdered by Tharpe 27 years ago.
Because this Court should not be in the business of ceremonial handwringing, I respectfully dissent.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
The Eleventh Circuit also held that Tharpe had not exhausted his Pena-Rodriguez claim in state court.
2017 WL 4250413, *4.
Footnote 2
Moreover, because the state court considered Tharpe's evidence of racial bias anyway, despite Georgia's no-impeachment rule, no reasonable jurist could argue that Pena-Rodriguez presents an extraordinary circumstance that entitles Tharpe to reopen his judgment under Rule 60(b).
He has already received the benefit of the rule announced in Pena-Rodriguez.
Footnote 3
Even if Tharpe could show that Pena-Rodriguez is retroactive under Teague and could overcome his procedural default, no reasonable jurist could argue that he has stated a valid juror-bias claim on the merits.
The state court concluded that his claim failed in the absence of any admissible evidence to support it.
See Tharpe v. Warden, No. 93-cv-144 (Super.
Ct.
Butts Cty., Ga., Dec. 1, 2008), App.
F to Pet.
for Cert.
102.
To obtain federal habeas relief, Tharpe must show that this merits decision "was contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States."
28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1).
Since the state court issued its decision nearly a decade before Pena-Rodriguez, no reasonable jurist could argue that the state court's decision was contrary to clearly established law at "the time the state court render[ed] its decision."
Cullen v. Pinholster, 563 U. S. 170, 182 (2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).
MANRIQUE v. UNITED STATES, (2017)
No. 15-7250
Argued: October 11, 2016    Decided: April 19, 2017
After federal agents found child pornography on petitioner's computer, he pleaded guilty to possessing a visual depiction of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct, in violation of 18 U. S. C. §§2252(a)(4)(B) and (b)(2), an offense requiring a district court to "make restitution to the victim of the offense," §3663A(a)(1).
The District Court entered an initial judgment sentencing petitioner to a term of imprisonment.
It also acknowledged that restitution was mandatory but deferred determination of the restitution amount.
Petitioner filed a notice of appeal from this initial judgment.
Months later, the District Court entered an amended judgment, ordering petitioner to pay restitution to one of his victims.
Petitioner did not file a second notice of appeal from the amended judgment.
When he nonetheless challenged the restitution amount before the Eleventh Circuit, the Government argued that he had forfeited his right to do so by failing to file a second notice of appeal.
The Eleventh Circuit agreed, holding that petitioner could not challenge the restitution amount.
Held: A defendant wishing to appeal an order imposing restitution in a deferred restitution case must file a notice of appeal from that order.
If he fails to do so and the Government objects, he may not challenge the restitution order on appeal.
Pp. 3-9.
(a) Both 18 U. S. C. §3742(a), which governs criminal appeals, and Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 3(a)(1) contemplate that a defendant will file a notice of appeal after the district court has decided the issue sought to be appealed.
Here, petitioner filed only one notice of appeal, which preceded by many months the sentence and judgment imposing restitution.
He therefore failed to properly appeal the amended judgment.
Whether or not the requirement that a defendant file a timely notice of appeal from an amended judgment imposing restitution is a jurisdictional prerequisite, it is at least a mandatory claim-processing rule, which is "unalterable" if raised properly by the party asserting a violation of the rule.
Eberhart v. United States, 546 U. S. 12, 15.
Because the Government timely raised the issue, "the court's duty to dismiss the appeal was mandatory."
Id., at 18.
Pp. 3-5.
(b) Petitioner's argument that his single notice of appeal sufficed under the Federal Rules to appeal both judgments depends on two premises: First, in a deferred restitution case, there is only one "judgment," as that term is used in Rules 4(b)(1) and (b)(2); and second, so long as a notice of appeal is filed after the initial judgment, it "springs forward" under Rule 4(b)(2) to appeal the amended judgment imposing restitution.
Each premise is rejected.
Pp. 5-7.
(1) This Court's analysis in Dolan v. United States, 560 U. S. 605, makes clear that deferred restitution cases involve two appealable judgments, not one.
The Dolan Court did not decide the question presented here, but the Court was not persuaded by the argument that "a sentencing judgment is not 'final' until it contains a definitive determination of the amount of restitution."
Id., at 617-618.
Instead, the Court recognized, "strong arguments" supported the proposition that both the initial judgment and the restitution order were each immediately appealable final judgments.
Ibid.
Pp. 5-6.
(2) Because petitioner's notice of appeal was filed well before the District Court announced the sentence imposing restitution, the notice of appeal did not "spring forward" to become effective on the date the court entered its amended restitution judgment.
By its own terms, Rule 4(b)(2) applies only to a notice of appeal filed after a sentence has been announced and before the judgment imposing the sentence is entered on the docket.
Even if the District Court's acknowledgment in the initial judgment that restitution was mandatory could qualify as a "sentence" that the District Court "announced" under Rule 4(b)(2), petitioner has never disputed that restitution is mandatory for his offense.
Rather, he argued on appeal that the amount imposed is unlawful.
Pp. 6-7.
(c) Petitioner's alternative argument that any defect in his notice of appeal should be overlooked as harmless error is rejected.
Lemke v. United States, 346 U. S. 325, on which he relies, has been superseded by the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure in two ways.
First, the Lemke petitioner's notice of appeal would now be timely under Rule 4(b)(2).
Petitioner in this case cannot take advantage of that Rule.
Second, Rule 3(a)(2) now provides the consequences for litigant errors associated with filing a notice of appeal.
The court of appeals may, in its discretion, overlook defects in a notice of appeal other than the failure to timely file a notice.
It may not overlook the failure to file a notice of appeal at all.
Pp. 8-9.
618 Fed.
Appx.
579, affirmed.
Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Breyer, Alito, and Kagan, JJ., joined.
Ginsburg, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Sotomayor, J., joined.
Gorsuch, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.
Opinion of the Court
581 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 15-7250
MARCELO MANRIQUE, PETITIONER v.
UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
[April 19, 2017]
Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.
Sentencing courts are required to impose restitution as part of the sentence for specified crimes.
But the amount to be imposed is not always known at the time of sentencing.
When that is the case, the court may enter an initial judgment imposing certain aspects of a defendant's sentence, such as a term of imprisonment, while deferring a determination of the amount of restitution until entry of a later, amended judgment.
We must decide whether a single notice of appeal, filed between the initial judgment and the amended judgment, is sufficient to invoke appellate review of the later-determined restitution amount.
We hold that it is not, at least where, as here, the Government objects to the defendant's failure to file a notice of appeal following the amended judgment.
I
After federal agents found more than 300 files containing child pornography on his computer, petitioner Marcelo Manrique pleaded guilty to possessing a visual depiction of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct, in violation of 18 U. S. C. §§2252(a)(4)(B) and (b)(2).
Under the Mandatory Victims Restitution Act of 1996 (MVRA), the District Court was required to order petitioner to "make restitution to the victim of the offense."
§3663A(a)(1); see §§2259(a), (b)(2) ("An order of restitution under this section shall be issued and enforced in accordance with [§]3664 in the same manner as an order under [§]3663A").
On June 24, 2014, the District Court entered an initial judgment sentencing petitioner to 72 months of imprisonment and a life term of supervised release.
At the sentencing hearing, the court acknowledged that restitution was mandatory.
But, consistent with the MVRA, the court postponed determining the victims' damages, which had not yet been ascertained.
See, e.g., §3664(d)(5); Dolan v. United States, 560 U. S. 605, 607-608 (2010).
Accordingly, the judgment expressly deferred "determination of restitution" and noted that an "Amended Judgment . . . w[ould] be entered after such determination."
App.
39.
On July 8, petitioner filed a notice of appeal "from the final judgment and sentence entered in this action on the 24th day of June, 2014."
Id., at 42.
The District Court held a restitution hearing on September 17, 2014.
Only one of the victims sought restitution.
The court ordered petitioner to pay $4,500 in restitution to her and entered an amended judgment the next day imposing that sentence.
Petitioner did not file a second notice of appeal from the court's order imposing restitution or from the amended judgment.
Notwithstanding his failure to file a second notice of appeal, petitioner challenged the restitution amount before the Eleventh Circuit, arguing in his brief that the Government had not shown he was the proximate cause of the victim's injuries and that the restitution amount bore no rational relationship to the damages she claimed.
The Government countered that petitioner had forfeited his right to challenge the restitution amount by failing to file a second notice of appeal.
The Court of Appeals agreed that petitioner could not challenge the restitution amount and declined to consider his challenge.
618 Fed.
Appx.
579, 583-584 (CA11 2015) ( per curiam).
We granted certiorari, 578 U. S. ___ (2016), and now affirm.
II
A
To secure appellate review of a judgment or order, a party must file a notice of appeal from that judgment or order.
Filing a notice of appeal transfers adjudicatory authority from the district court to the court of appeals.
The statute that governs appeals of criminal sentences, 18 U. S. C. §3742(a), provides that a "defendant may file a notice of appeal in the district court for review of an otherwise final sentence" in certain specified circumstances.
See United States v. Ruiz, 536 U. S. 622, 626?628 (2002).
And Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 3(a)(1) specifies that "[a]n appeal permitted by law as of right . . . may be taken only by filing a notice of appeal with the district clerk within the time allowed by Rule 4."
(Emphasis added.)
Both §3742(a) and Rule 4 contemplate that the defendant will file the notice of appeal after the district court has decided the issue sought to be appealed.
Section 3742(a)(1) permits the defendant to file a notice of appeal of a sentence that "was imposed in violation of law."
(Emphasis added.)
And Rule 4(b)(1)(A)(i) provides generally that, "[i]n a criminal case, a defendant's notice of appeal must be filed in the district court within 14 days after . . . the entry of either the judgment or the order being appealed."
(Emphasis added.)
Petitioner filed only one notice of appeal, which preceded by many months the sentence and judgment imposing restitution.
His notice of appeal could not have been "for review" of the restitution order, §3742(a), and it was not filed within the timeframe allowed by Rule 4.
He thus failed to properly appeal under the statute and the Rules the amended judgment imposing restitution.
The Government contends that filing a notice of appeal from the judgment imposing restitution is a jurisdictional prerequisite to securing appellate review of the restitution amount.
See, e.g., Brief for United States 28-31.
This position follows, according to the Government, from many of our cases emphasizing the "jurisdictional significance" of a notice of appeal.
E.g., Griggs v. Provident Consumer Discount Co., 459 U. S. 56, 58 (1982) ( per curiam).
Because the notice of appeal is jurisdictional, the Government explains, the Court of Appeals was required to dismiss petitioner's appeal regardless of whether the Government raised the issue.
We do not need to decide in this case whether the Government is correct.
The requirement that a defendant file a timely notice of appeal from an amended judgment imposing restitution is at least a mandatory claim-processing rule.
See Greenlaw v. United States, 554 U. S. 237, 252-253 (2008); see also Rule 3(a)(2) ("An appellant's failure to take any step other than the timely filing of a notice of appeal does not affect the validity of the appeal, but is ground only for the court of appeals to act as it considers appropriate, including dismissing the appeal" (emphasis added)).
Mandatory claim-processing rules "seek to promote the orderly progress of litigation by requiring that the parties take certain procedural steps at certain specified times."
Henderson v. Shinseki, 562 U. S. 428, 435 (2011).
Unlike jurisdictional rules, mandatory claim-processing rules may be forfeited "if the party asserting the rule waits too long to raise the point."
Eberhart v. United States, 546 U. S. 12, 15 (2005) ( per curiam) (internal quotation marks omitted).
If a party "properly raise[s] them," however, they are "unalterable."
Id., at 15, 19.
The Government timely raised petitioner's failure to file a notice of appeal from the amended judgment imposing restitution before the Court of Appeals.
See Brief for United States in No. 14-13029 (CA11), pp. 22-25 (arguing that petitioner "waived his right to appeal the district court's order of restitution by failing to file a notice of appeal from that order" (capitalization omitted)).
Accordingly, "the court's duty to dismiss the appeal was mandatory."
Eberhart, supra, at 18.
B
Petitioner disputes this conclusion, arguing that his single notice of appeal sufficed under the Rules to appeal both the initial judgment and the amended judgment imposing restitution.
As we understand it, his argument depends on two premises: First, in a deferred restitution case, there is only one "judgment," as that term is used in Rules 4(b)(1) and (b)(2); and second, so long as a notice of appeal is filed after the initial judgment, it "springs forward" under Rule 4(b)(2) to appeal the amended judgment imposing restitution.
We reject each of these premises.
1
Petitioner argues that the initial judgment deferring restitution and the amended judgment imposing a specific restitution amount merge to become "the judgment" referenced in the Federal Rules.
See Rule 4(b)(1)(A)(i) (notice of appeal must be filed within 14 days after "the entry of . . . the judgment . . . being appealed"); Rule 4(b)(2) ("Filing Before Entry of Judgment").
He argues that his notice of appeal, which was filed within 14 days of the initial judgment, was therefore sufficient to invoke appellate review of the merged judgment.
Petitioner's approach is inconsistent with our reasoning in Dolan, 560 U. S. 605.
The petitioner in that case argued that the amended judgment imposing restitution is the only final, appealable judgment in a deferred restitution case.
See id., at 616.
Although we did not decide "whether or when a party can, or must, appeal"--the question presented here--we were not persuaded by the argument that "a sentencing judgment is not 'final' until it contains a definitive determination of the amount of restitution."
Id., at 617-618.
To the contrary, we recognized "strong arguments" supporting the proposition that both the "initial judgment [that] imposed a sentence of imprisonment and supervised release" and the subsequent " 'sentence that impose[d] an order of restitution' " were each immediately appealable final judgments.
Ibid.
(citing 18 U. S. C. §§3582(b) (imprisonment), 3583(a) (supervised release), and 3664(o) (restitution)).
Consequently, we were not surprised "to find instances where a defendant ha[d] appealed from the entry of a judgment containing an initial sentence that includes a term of imprisonment" and "subsequently appealed from a later order setting forth the final amount of restitution."
560 U. S., at 618.
Our analysis in Dolan thus makes clear that deferred restitution cases involve two appealable judgments, not one.1
2
Petitioner's reliance on Rule 4(b)(2) is also misplaced.
That Rule provides that a "notice of appeal filed after the court announces a decision, sentence, or order--but before the entry of the judgment or order--is treated as filed on the date of and after the entry."
A prematurely filed notice of appeal will become effective under the Rule to challenge a later-entered judgment in some circumstances.
As this Court explained in construing Rule 4(a)(2)'s parallel provision for civil cases, the Rule "was intended to protect the unskilled litigant who files a notice of appeal from a decision that he reasonably but mistakenly believes to be a final judgment, while failing to file a notice of appeal from the actual final judgment."
FirsTier Mortgage Co. v. Investors Mortgage Ins.
Co., 498 U. S. 269, 276 (1991).
By its own terms, however, Rule 4(b)(2) applies only to a notice of appeal filed after a sentence has been "announce[d]" and before the judgment imposing the sentence is entered on the docket.
See Rule 4(b)(6) ("A judgment or order is entered for purposes of this Rule 4(b) when it is entered on the criminal docket").
If the court has not yet decided the issue that the appellant seeks to appeal, then the Rule does not come into play.
Accordingly, it does not apply where a district court enters an initial judgment deferring restitution and subsequently amends the judgment to include the sentence of restitution.
By deferring restitution, the court is declining to announce a sentence.
When petitioner filed his notice of appeal in this case, the District Court had observed only that restitution was "mandatory."
App.
27.
The court did not announce the restitution amount (or even hold a hearing on the issue) until months later.
Even if describing restitution as mandatory could qualify as a "sentence" that the District Court "announced" under Rule 4(b)(2), petitioner has never disputed that restitution is mandatory for his offense.
Rather, he argued on appeal that the amount of the restitution imposed--an issue the court did not consider until months later--is unlawful.
Because petitioner's notice of appeal was filed well before the District Court announced the sentence imposing $4,500 in restitution, the notice of appeal did not "spring forward" to become effective on the date the court entered its amended judgment imposing that sentence.
C
Finally, petitioner argues in the alternative that any defect in his notice of appeal should be overlooked as harmless error, citing Lemke v. United States, 346 U. S. 325 (1953) (per curiam).
In that case, the petitioner filed a notice of appeal the day after his sentence was announced but three days before the judgment was entered.
Id., at 326.
His notice of appeal was dismissed as premature under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 37(a)(2), which then governed notices of appeal in criminal cases.
This Court reversed on the ground that the premature filing was harmless error under Rule 52(a).
Ibid.
The Court's holding in Lemke does not apply to petitioner's failure to file a notice of appeal from the amended judgment.
Lemke has been superseded by the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure in two ways.
First, the Lemke petitioner's notice of appeal would now be timely under Rule 4(b)(2).
As discussed in Part II-B-2, supra, petitioner here cannot take advantage of that rule.
Second, Rule 3(a)(2) now provides the consequences for litigant errors associated with filing a notice of appeal.
The court of appeals may, in its discretion, overlook defects in a notice of appeal other than the failure to timely file a notice.
It may not overlook the failure to file a notice of appeal at all.
The filing of a notice of appeal from an amended judgment imposing restitution is at least a mandatory claim-processing rule, Part II-A, supra, meaning that the requirement to file such a notice is unalterable, so long as the opposing party raises the issue.
By definition, mandatory claim-processing rules, although subject to forfeiture, are not subject to harmless-error analysis.
Petitioner in this case did not file a defective notice of appeal from the amended judgment imposing restitution, but rather failed altogether to file a notice of appeal from the amended judgment.
Courts do not have discretion to overlook such an error, at least where it is called to their attention.
*??*??*
We hold that a defendant who wishes to appeal an order imposing restitution in a deferred restitution case must file a notice of appeal from that order.
Because petitioner failed to do so, and the Government objected, the Court of Appeals properly declined to consider his challenge to the amount of restitution imposed.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals, accordingly, is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
Justice Gorsuch took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
Ginsburg, J., dissenting
581 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 15-7250
MARCELO MANRIQUE, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
[April 19, 2017]
Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Sotomayor joins, dissenting.
Time limits, such as those stated in Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure 3 and 4, and other limitations prescribed in a procedural rule, this Court has held, are claim-processing rules, not jurisdictional requirements.
See, e.g., Eberhart v. United States, 546 U. S. 12, 15-19 (2005) (per curiam); Kontrick v. Ryan, 540 U. S. 443, 448, 452-456 (2004).
That matter is settled, and the Court, today, leaves undisturbed prior opinions distinguishing claim-processing rules from jurisdictional orders.
See, e.g., Gonzalez v. Thaler, 565 U. S. 134, 141-143 (2012); Henderson v. Shinseki, 562 U. S. 428, 435-436, 441-442 (2011); Scarborough v. Principi, 541 U. S. 401, 413-414 (2004); cf. Bowles v. Russell, 551 U. S. 205, 209-213 (2007) (distinguishing statutory prescriptions from procedural rules).
As I see it, a defendant wishing to appeal his sentence and conviction when a restitution determination has been deferred has two choices: (1) He may immediately appeal his conviction and sentence of imprisonment, and later appeal the restitution order when made; or (2) he may await the restitution order and then appeal, through a single notice, his conviction, sentence of imprisonment, and restitution order.
But even assuming, arguendo, that separate appeal notices are ordinarily required, I would hold that Manrique is not barred from appealing the restitution order in the circumstances of this case.
Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 32(j)(1)(B) states:
"Appealing a Sentence.
After sentencing--regardless of the defendant's plea--the court must advise the defendant of any right to appeal the sentence."
The District Court gave Manrique the requisite advice upon sentencing him to imprisonment on June 23, 2014, see App.
29; that court gave no such advice upon amending its judgment on September 18, 2014 to include the amount of restitution ordered, see id., at 10, 46-65.
The Government agrees that the District Court was "absolutely" required to advise Manrique of his right to appeal the restitution order, and anticipates that the required advice "will prevent cases like this from arising again in the future."
Tr.
of Oral Arg.
28.
Aware of its obligation to advise Manrique of his right to appeal, the District Court appears to have assumed that no second notice was required to place the restitution amount before the Court of Appeals.
Without awaiting another appeal notice, the District Court clerk transmitted the amended judgment, five days after its entry, to the Court of Appeals, which filed that judgment on the docket of the appeal from the conviction and sentence already pending in that court.
App.
10.
In turn, the Eleventh Circuit's clerk asked the District Court reporter to send up the transcript of, and record from, the restitution hearing.
See Docket in No. 14-13029 (CA11).
In light of what occurred here, I would hold that the clerk's dispatch of the amended judgment to the Court of Appeals "confer[red] jurisdiction on the court of appeals."
Griggs v. Provident Consumer Discount Co., 459 U. S. 56, 58 (1982) (per curiam).
In other words, in lieu of trapping an unwary defendant, see Tr.
of Oral Arg.
29, I would rank the clerk's transmission of the amended judgment to the Court of Appeals as an adequate substitute for a second notice of appeal.1
Because I would treat the clerk's transmission of the amended judgment as tantamount to, or effectively doing service for, a second appeal notice, I would reverse the Eleventh Circuit's judgment and allow Manrique to include the restitution order in his appeal.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
We do not intend to call into question this Court's decision in Corey v. United States, 375 U. S. 169, 176 (1963) (holding that a defendant may challenge his conviction after a single notice of appeal filed from a final sentence imposed under §4208(b)).
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
Given the steps taken by the District Court, Court of Appeals, and the clerks of those courts, it was likely no surprise to the Government when Manrique challenged the restitution award in his opening brief on appeal.
See Brief for Appellant in No. 14-13029 (CA11), pp. 23-29.
MANUEL v. CITY OF JOLIET, ILLINOIS, ET AL., (2017)
No. 14-9496
Argued: October 5, 2016    Decided: March 21, 2017
During a traffic stop, police officers in Joliet, Illinois, searched petitioner Elijah Manuel and found a vitamin bottle containing pills.
Suspecting the pills to be illegal drugs, the officers conducted a field test, which came back negative for any controlled substance.
Still, they arrested Manuel and took him to the police station.
There, an evidence technician tested the pills and got the same negative result, but claimed in his report that one of the pills tested "positive for the probable presence of ecstasy."
App.
92.
An arresting officer also reported that, based on his "training and experience," he "knew the pills to be ecstasy."
Id., at 91.
On the basis of those false statements, another officer filed a sworn complaint charging Manuel with unlawful possession of a controlled substance.
Relying exclusively on that complaint, a county court judge found probable cause to detain Manuel pending trial.
While Manuel was in jail, the Illinois police laboratory tested the seized pills and reported that they contained no controlled substances.
But Manuel remained in custody, spending a total of 48 days in pretrial detention.
More than two years after his arrest, but less than two years after his criminal case was dismissed, Manuel filed a 42 U. S. C. §1983 lawsuit against Joliet and several of its police officers (collectively, the City), alleging that his arrest and detention violated the Fourth Amendment.
The District Court dismissed Manuel's suit, holding, first, that the applicable two-year statute of limitations barred his unlawful arrest claim, and, second, that under binding Circuit precedent, pretrial detention following the start of legal process (here, the judge's probable-cause determination) could not give rise to a Fourth Amendment claim.
Manuel appealed the dismissal of his unlawful detention claim; the Seventh Circuit affirmed.
Held:
1.
Manuel may challenge his pretrial detention on Fourth Amendment grounds.
This conclusion follows from the Court's settled precedent.
In Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U. S. 103, the Court decided that a pretrial detention challenge was governed by the Fourth Amendment, noting that the Fourth Amendment establishes the minimum constitutional "standards and procedures" not just for arrest but also for "detention," id., at 111, and "always has been thought to define" the appropriate process "for seizures of person[s] . . . in criminal cases, including the detention of suspects pending trial," id., at 125, n. 27.
And in Albright v. Oliver, 510 U. S. 266, a majority of the Court again looked to the Fourth Amendment to assess pretrial restraints on liberty.
Relying on Gerstein, the plurality reiterated that the Fourth Amendment is the "relevan[t]" constitutional provision to assess the "deprivations of liberty that go hand in hand with criminal prosecutions."
Id., at 274; see id., at 290 (Souter, J., concurring in judgment) ("[R]ules of recovery for such harms have naturally coalesced under the Fourth Amendment").
That the pretrial restraints in Albright arose pursuant to legal process made no difference, given that they were allegedly unsupported by probable cause.
As reflected in those cases, pretrial detention can violate the Fourth Amendment not only when it precedes, but also when it follows, the start of legal process.
The Fourth Amendment prohibits government officials from detaining a person absent probable cause.
And where legal process has gone forward, but has done nothing to satisfy the probable-cause requirement, it cannot extinguish a detainee's Fourth Amendment claim.
That was the case here: Because the judge's determination of probable cause was based solely on fabricated evidence, it did not expunge Manuel's Fourth Amendment claim.
For that reason, Manuel stated a Fourth Amendment claim when he sought relief not merely for his arrest, but also for his pretrial detention.
Pp. 6-10.
2.
On remand, the Seventh Circuit should determine the claim's accrual date, unless it finds that the City has previously waived its timeliness argument.
In doing so, the court should look to the common law of torts for guidance, Carey v. Piphus, 435 U. S. 247, 257-258, while also closely attending to the values and purposes of the constitutional right at issue.
The court may also consider any other still-live issues relating to the elements of and rules applicable to Manuel's Fourth Amendment claim.
Pp. 11-15.
590 Fed.
Appx.
641, reversed and remanded.
Kagan, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined.
Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion.
Alito, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Thomas, J., joined.
Opinion of the Court
580 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 14-9496
ELIJAH MANUEL, PETITIONER v. CITY OF JOLIET, ILLINOIS, et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the seventh circuit
[March 21, 2017]
Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner Elijah Manuel was held in jail for some seven weeks after a judge relied on allegedly fabricated evidence to find probable cause that he had committed a crime.
The primary question in this case is whether Manuel may bring a claim based on the Fourth Amendment to contest the legality of his pretrial confinement.
Our answer follows from settled precedent.
The Fourth Amendment, this Court has recognized, establishes "the standards and procedures" governing pretrial detention.
See, e.g., Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U. S. 103, 111 (1975).
And those constitutional protections apply even after the start of "legal process" in a criminal case--here, that is, after the judge's determination of probable cause.
See Albright v. Oliver, 510 U. S. 266, 274 (1994) (plurality opinion); id., at 290 (Souter, J., concurring in judgment).
Accordingly, we hold today that Manuel may challenge his pretrial detention on the ground that it violated the Fourth Amendment (while we leave all other issues, including one about that claim's timeliness, to the court below).
I
Shortly after midnight on March 18, 2011, Manuel was riding through Joliet, Illinois, in the passenger seat of a Dodge Charger, with his brother at the wheel.
A pair of Joliet police officers pulled the car over when the driver failed to signal a turn.
See App.
90.
According to the complaint in this case, one of the officers dragged Manuel from the car, called him a racial slur, and kicked and punched him as he lay on the ground.
See id., at 31-32, 63.1 The policeman then searched Manuel and found a vitamin bottle containing pills.
See id., at 64.
Suspecting that the pills were actually illegal drugs, the officers conducted a field test of the bottle's contents.
The test came back negative for any controlled substance, leaving the officers with no evidence that Manuel had committed a crime.
See id., at 69.
Still, the officers arrested Manuel and took him to the Joliet police station.
See id., at 70.
There, an evidence technician tested the pills once again, and got the same (negative) result.
See ibid.
But the technician lied in his report, claiming that one of the pills was "found to be . . . positive for the probable presence of ecstasy."
Id., at 92.
Similarly, one of the arresting officers wrote in his report that "[f ]rom [ his] training and experience, [ he] knew the pills to be ecstasy."
Id., at 91.
On the basis of those statements, another officer swore out a criminal complaint against Manuel, charging him with unlawful possession of a controlled substance.
See id., at 52-53.
Manuel was brought before a county court judge later that day for a determination of whether there was probable cause for the charge, as necessary for further detention.
See Gerstein, 420 U. S., at 114 (requiring a judicial finding of probable cause following a warrantless arrest to impose any significant pretrial restraint on liberty); Ill.
Comp.
Stat., ch.
725, §5/109-1 (West 2010) (implementing that constitutional rule).
The judge relied exclusively on the criminal complaint--which in turn relied exclusively on the police department's fabrications--to support a finding of probable cause.
Based on that determination, he sent Manuel to the county jail to await trial.
In the somewhat obscure legal lingo of this case, Manuel's subsequent detention was thus pursuant to "legal process"--because it followed from, and was authorized by, the judge's probable-cause determination.2
While Manuel sat in jail, the Illinois police laboratory reexamined the seized pills, and on April 1, it issued a report concluding (just as the prior two tests had) that they contained no controlled substances.
See App.
51.
But for unknown reasons, the prosecution--and, critically for this case, Manuel's detention--continued for more than another month.
Only on May 4 did an Assistant State's Attorney seek dismissal of the drug charge.
See id., at 48, 101.
The County Court immediately granted the request, and Manuel was released the next day.
In all, he had spent 48 days in pretrial detention.
On April 22, 2013, Manuel brought this lawsuit under 42 U. S. C. §1983 against the City of Joliet and several of its police officers (collectively, the City).
Section 1983 creates a "species of tort liability," Imbler v. Pachtman, 424 U. S. 409, 417 (1976), for "the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution," §1983.
Manuel's complaint alleged that the City violated his Fourth Amendment rights in two ways--first by arresting him at the roadside without any reason, and next by "detaining him in police custody" for almost seven weeks based entirely on made-up evidence.
See App.
79-80.3
The District Court dismissed Manuel's suit.
See 2014 WL 551626 (ND Ill., Feb. 12, 2014).
The court first held that the applicable two-year statute of limitations barred Manuel's claim for unlawful arrest, because more than two years had elapsed between the date of his arrest (March 18, 2011) and the filing of his complaint (April 22, 2013).
But the court relied on another basis in rejecting Manuel's challenge to his subsequent detention (which stretched from March 18 to May 5, 2011).
Binding Circuit precedent, the District Court explained, made clear that pretrial detention following the start of legal process could not give rise to a Fourth Amendment claim.
See id., at *1 (citing, e.g., Newsome v. McCabe, 256 F. 3d 747, 750 (CA7 2001)).
According to that line of decisions, a §1983 plaintiff challenging such detention must allege a breach of the Due Process Clause--and must show, to recover on that theory, that state law fails to provide an adequate remedy.
See 2014 WL 551626, at *1-*2.
Because Manuel's complaint rested solely on the Fourth Amendment--and because, in any event, Illinois's remedies were robust enough to preclude the due process avenue--the District Court found that Manuel had no way to proceed.
See ibid.
The Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed the dismissal of Manuel's claim for unlawful detention (the only part of the District Court's decision Manuel appealed).
See 590 Fed.
Appx.
641 (2015).
Invoking its prior caselaw, the Court of Appeals reiterated that such claims could not be brought under the Fourth Amendment.
Once a person is detained pursuant to legal process, the court stated, "the Fourth Amendment falls out of the picture and the detainee's claim that the detention is improper becomes [one of] due process."
Id., at 643-644 (quoting Llovet v. Chicago, 761 F. 3d 759, 763 (CA7 2014)).
And again: "When, after the arrest[,] a person is not let go when he should be, the Fourth Amendment gives way to the due process clause as a basis for challenging his detention."
590 Fed.
Appx., at 643 (quoting Llovet, 761 F. 3d, at 764).
So the Seventh Circuit held that Manuel's complaint, in alleging only a Fourth Amendment violation, rested on the wrong part of the Constitution: A person detained following the onset of legal process could at most (although, the court agreed, not in Illinois) challenge his pretrial confinement via the Due Process Clause.
See 590 Fed.
Appx., at 643-644.
The Seventh Circuit recognized that its position makes it an outlier among the Courts of Appeals, with ten others taking the opposite view.
See id., at 643; Hernandez-Cuevas v. Taylor, 723 F. 3d 91, 99 (CA1 2013) ("[T]here is now broad consensus among the circuits that the Fourth Amendment right to be free from seizure but upon probable cause extends through the pretrial period").4 Still, the court decided, Manuel had failed to offer a sufficient reason for overturning settled Circuit precedent; his argument, albeit "strong," was "better left for the Supreme Court."
590 Fed.
Appx., at 643.
On cue, we granted certiorari.
577 U. S. ___ (2016).
II
The Fourth Amendment protects "[t]he right of the people to be secure in their persons . . . against unreasonable . . . seizures."
Manuel's complaint seeks just that protection.
Government officials, it recounts, detained--which is to say, "seiz[ed]"--Manuel for 48 days following his arrest.
See App.
79-80; Brendlin v. California, 551 U. S. 249, 254 (2007) ("A person is seized" whenever officials "restrain[ ] his freedom of movement" such that he is "not free to leave").
And that detention was "unreason-able," the complaint continues, because it was based solely on false evidence, rather than supported by probable cause.
See App.
79-80; Bailey v. United States, 568 U. S. 186, 192 (2013) ("[T]he general rule [is] that Fourth Amendment seizures are 'reasonable' only if based on probable cause to believe that the individual has committed a crime").
By their respective terms, then, Manuel's claim fits the Fourth Amendment, and the Fourth Amendment fits Manuel's claim, as hand in glove.
This Court decided some four decades ago that a claim challenging pretrial detention fell within the scope of the Fourth Amendment.
In Gerstein, two persons arrested without a warrant brought a §1983 suit complaining that they had been held in custody for "a substantial period solely on the decision of a prosecutor."
420 U. S., at 106.
The Court looked to the Fourth Amendment to analyze--and uphold--their claim that such a pretrial restraint on liberty is unlawful unless a judge (or grand jury) first makes a reliable finding of probable cause.
See id., at 114, 117, n. 19.
The Fourth Amendment, we began, establishes the minimum constitutional "standards and procedures" not just for arrest but also for ensuing "detention."
Id., at 111.
In choosing that Amendment "as the rationale for decision," the Court responded to a concurring Justice's view that the Due Process Clause offered the better framework: The Fourth Amendment, the majority countered, was "tailored explicitly for the criminal justice system, and it[ ] always has been thought to define" the appropriate process "for seizures of person[s] . . . in criminal cases, including the detention of suspects pending trial."
Id., at 125, n. 27.
That Amendment, standing alone, guaranteed "a fair and reliable determination of probable cause as a condition for any significant pretrial restraint."
Id., at 125.
Accordingly, those detained prior to trial without such a finding could appeal to "the Fourth Amendment's protection against unfounded invasions of liberty."
Id., at 112; see id., at 114.5
And so too, a later decision indicates, those objecting to a pretrial deprivation of liberty may invoke the Fourth Amendment when (as here) that deprivation occurs after legal process commences.
The §1983 plaintiff in Albright complained of various pretrial restraints imposed after a court found probable cause to issue an arrest warrant, and then bind him over for trial, based on a policeman's unfounded charges.
See 510 U. S., at 268-269 (plurality opinion).
For uncertain reasons, Albright ignored the Fourth Amendment in drafting his complaint; instead, he alleged that the defendant officer had infringed his substantive due process rights.
This Court rejected that claim, with five Justices in two opinions remitting Albright to the Fourth Amendment.
See id., at 271 (plurality opinion) ("We hold that it is the Fourth Amendment . . . under which [ his] claim must be judged"); id., at 290 (Souter, J., concurring in judgment) ("[I]njuries like those [ he] alleges are cognizable in §1983 claims founded upon . . . the Fourth Amendment").
"The Framers," the plurality wrote, "considered the matter of pretrial deprivations of liberty and drafted the Fourth Amendment to address it."
Id., at 274.
That the deprivations at issue were pursuant to legal process made no difference, given that they were (allegedly) unsupported by probable cause; indeed, neither of the two opinions so much as mentioned that procedural circumstance.
Relying on Gerstein, the plurality stated that the Fourth Amendment remained the "relevan[t]" constitutional provision to assess the "deprivations of liberty"--most notably, pretrial detention--"that go hand in hand with criminal prosecutions."
510 U. S., at 274; see id., at 290 (Souter, J., concurring in judgment) ("[R]ules of recovery for such harms have naturally coalesced under the Fourth Amendment").
As reflected in Albright's tracking of Gerstein's analysis, pretrial detention can violate the Fourth Amendment not only when it precedes, but also when it follows, the start of legal process in a criminal case.
The Fourth Amendment prohibits government officials from detaining a person in the absence of probable cause.
See supra, at 6.
That can happen when the police hold someone without any reason before the formal onset of a criminal proceeding.
But it also can occur when legal process itself goes wrong--when, for example, a judge's probable-cause determination is predicated solely on a police officer's false statements.
Then, too, a person is confined without constitutionally adequate justification.
Legal process has gone forward, but it has done nothing to satisfy the Fourth Amendment's probable-cause requirement.
And for that reason, it cannot extinguish the detainee's Fourth Amendment claim--or somehow, as the Seventh Circuit has held, convert that claim into one founded on the Due Process Clause.
See 590 Fed.
Appx., at 643-644.
If the complaint is that a form of legal process resulted in pretrial detention unsupported by probable cause, then the right allegedly infringed lies in the Fourth Amendment.6
For that reason, and contrary to the Seventh Circuit's view, Manuel stated a Fourth Amendment claim when he sought relief not merely for his (pre-legal-process) arrest, but also for his (post-legal-process) pretrial detention.7 Consider again the facts alleged in this case.
Police officers initially arrested Manuel without probable cause, based solely on his possession of pills that had field tested negative for an illegal substance.
So (putting timeliness issues aside) Manuel could bring a claim for wrongful arrest under the Fourth Amendment.
And the same is true (again, disregarding timeliness) as to a claim for wrongful detention--because Manuel's subsequent weeks in custody were also unsupported by probable cause, and so also constitutionally unreasonable.
No evidence of Manuel's criminality had come to light in between the roadside arrest and the County Court proceeding initiating legal process; to the contrary, yet another test of Man-uel's pills had come back negative in that period.
All that the judge had before him were police fabrications about the pills' content.
The judge's order holding Manuel for trial therefore lacked any proper basis.
And that means Manuel's ensuing pretrial detention, no less than his original arrest, violated his Fourth Amendment rights.
Or put just a bit differently: Legal process did not expunge Manuel's Fourth Amendment claim because the process he received failed to establish what that Amendment makes essential for pretrial detention--probable cause to believe he committed a crime.8
III
Our holding--that the Fourth Amendment governs a claim for unlawful pretrial detention even beyond the start of legal process--does not exhaust the disputed legal issues in this case.
It addresses only the threshold inquiry in a §1983 suit, which requires courts to "identify the specific constitutional right" at issue.
Albright, 510 U. S., at 271.
After pinpointing that right, courts still must determine the elements of, and rules associated with, an action seeking damages for its violation.
See, e.g., Carey v. Piphus, 435 U. S. 247, 257-258 (1978).
Here, the parties particularly disagree over the accrual date of Manuel's Fourth Amendment claim--that is, the date on which the applicable two-year statute of limitations began to run.
The timeliness of Manuel's suit hinges on the choice between their proposed dates.
But with the following brief comments, we remand that issue to the court below.
In defining the contours and prerequisites of a §1983 claim, including its rule of accrual, courts are to look first to the common law of torts.
See ibid.
(explaining that tort principles "provide the appropriate starting point" in specifying the conditions for recovery under §1983); Wallace v. Kato, 549 U. S. 384, 388-390 (2007) (same for accrual dates in particular).
Sometimes, that review of common law will lead a court to adopt wholesale the rules that would apply in a suit involving the most analogous tort.
See id., at 388-390; Heck v. Humphrey, 512 U. S. 477, 483-487 (1994).
But not always.
Common-law principles are meant to guide rather than to control the definition of §1983 claims, serving "more as a source of inspired examples than of prefabricated components."
Hartman v. Moore, 547 U. S. 250, 258 (2006); see Rehberg v. Paulk, 566 U. S. 356, 366 (2012) (noting that "§1983 is [not] simply a federalized amalgamation of pre-existing common-law claims").
In applying, selecting among, or adjusting common-law approaches, courts must closely attend to the values and purposes of the constitutional right at issue.
With these precepts as backdrop, Manuel and the City offer competing views about what accrual rule should govern a §1983 suit challenging post-legal-process pretrial detention.
According to Manuel, that Fourth Amendment claim accrues only upon the dismissal of criminal charges--here, on May 4, 2011, less than two years before he brought his suit.
See Reply Brief 2; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 24-25, n. 16 (taking the same position).
Relying on this Court's caselaw, Manuel analogizes his claim to the common-law tort of malicious prosecution.
See Reply Brief 9; Wallace, 549 U. S., at 389-390.
An element of that tort is the "termination of the . . . proceeding in favor of the accused"; and accordingly, the statute of limitations does not start to run until that termination takes place.
Heck, 512 U. S., at 484, 489.
Man-uel argues that following the same rule in suits like his will avoid "conflicting resolutions" in §1983 litigation and criminal proceedings by "preclud[ing] the possibility of the claimant succeeding in the tort action after having been convicted in the underlying criminal prosecution."
Id., at 484, 486; see Reply Brief 10-11; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 24-25, n. 16.
In support of Manuel's position, all but two of the ten Courts of Appeals that have recognized a Fourth Amendment claim like his have incorporated a "favorable termination" element and so pegged the statute of limitations to the dismissal of the criminal case.
See n. 4, supra.9 That means in the great majority of Circuits, Manuel's claim would be timely.
The City, however, contends that any such Fourth Amendment claim accrues (and the limitations period starts to run) on the date of the initiation of legal process--here, on March 18, 2011, more than two years before Manuel filed suit.
See Brief for Respondents 33.
According to the City, the most analogous tort to Manuel's constitutional claim is not malicious prosecution but false arrest, which accrues when legal process commences.
See Tr.
of Oral Arg.
47; Wallace, 549 U. S., at 389 (noting accrual rule for false arrest suits).
And even if malicious prosecution were the better comparison, the City continues, a court should decline to adopt that tort's favorable-termination element and associated accrual rule in adjudicating a §1983 claim involving pretrial detention.
That element, the City argues, "make[s] little sense" in this context because "the Fourth Amendment is concerned not with the outcome of a prosecution, but with the legality of searches and seizures."
Brief for Respondents 16.
And finally, the City contends that Manuel forfeited an alternative theory for treating his date of release as the date of accrual: to wit, that his pretrial detention "constitute[d] a continuing Fourth Amendment violation," each day of which triggered the statute of limitations anew.
Id., at 29, and n. 6; see Tr.
of Oral Arg.
36; see also Albright, 510 U. S., at 280 (Ginsburg, J., concurring) (propounding a similar view).
So Manuel, the City concludes, lost the opportunity to recover for his pretrial detention by waiting too long to file suit.
We leave consideration of this dispute to the Court of Appeals. "
[W]e are a court of review, not of first view."
Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U. S. 709, 718, n. 7 (2005).
Because the Seventh Circuit wrongly held that Manuel lacked any Fourth Amendment claim once legal process began, the court never addressed the elements of, or rules applicable to, such a claim.
And in particular, the court never confronted the accrual issue that the parties contest here.10 On remand, the Court of Appeals should decide that question, unless it finds that the City has previously waived its timeliness argument.
See Reply to Brief in Opposition 1-2 (addressing the possibility of waiver); Tr.
of Oral Arg.
40-44 (same).
And so too, the court may consider any other still-live issues relating to the contours of Manuel's Fourth Amendment claim for unlawful pretrial detention.
*??*??*
For the reasons stated, we reverse the judgment of the Seventh Circuit and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
Thomas, J., dissenting
580 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 14-9496
ELIJAH MANUEL, PETITIONER v. CITY OF JOLIET, ILLINOIS, et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the seventh circuit
[March 21, 2017]
Justice Thomas, dissenting.
I join Justice Alito's opinion in full but write separately regarding the accrual date for a Fourth Amendment unreasonable-seizure claim.
Justice Alito suggests that a claim for unreasonable seizure based on a warrantless arrest might not accrue until the "first appearance" under Illinois law (or the "initial appearance" under federal law)--which ordinarily represents the first judicial determination of probable cause for that kind of arrest--rather than at the time of the arrest.
See post, at 1, 9 (dissenting opinion); see also Wallace v. Kato, 549 U. S. 384 (2007) (taking a similar approach).
Which of those events is the correct one for purposes of accrual makes no difference in this case, because both the arrest and the first appearance occurred more than two years before petitioner filed suit.
See ante, at 4; see also Wallace, supra, at 387 (petitioner's claim was untimely regardless of whether it accrued on day of arrest or first appearance).
I would leave for another case (one where the question is dispositive) whether an unreasonable-seizure claim would accrue on the date of the first appearance if that appearance occurred on some day after the arrest.
I think the answer to that question might turn on the meaning of "seizure," rather than on the presence or absence of any form of legal process.
See post, at 7-8 (describing the ordinary meaning of "seizure").
Alito, J., dissenting
580 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 14-9496
ELIJAH MANUEL, PETITIONER v. CITY OF JOLIET, ILLINOIS, et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the seventh circuit
[March 21, 2017]
Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas joins, dissenting.
I agree with the Court's holding up to a point: The protection provided by the Fourth Amendment continues to apply after "the start of legal process," ante, at 1, if legal process is understood to mean the issuance of an arrest warrant or what is called a "first appearance" under Illinois law and an "initial appearance" under federal law.
Ill.
Comp.
Stat., ch.
725, §§5/109-1(a), (e) (West Supp.
2015); Fed.
Rule Crim.
Proc.
5.
But if the Court means more--specifically, that new Fourth Amendment claims continue to accrue as long as pretrial detention lasts--the Court stretches the concept of a seizure much too far.
What is perhaps most remarkable about the Court's approach is that it entirely ignores the question that we agreed to decide, i.e., whether a claim of malicious prosecution may be brought under the Fourth Amendment.
I would decide that question and hold that the Fourth Amendment cannot house any such claim.
If a malicious prosecution claim may be brought under the Constitution, it must find some other home, presumably the Due Process Clause.
I
The question that was set out in Manuel's petition for a writ of certiorari and that we agreed to decide is as follows:
"[W]hether an individual's Fourth Amendment right to be free from unreasonable seizure continues beyond legal process so as to allow a malicious prosecution claim based upon the Fourth Amendment.
This question was raised, but left unanswered, by this Court in Albright v. Oliver, 510 U. S. 266 (1994).
Since then, the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, and D. C. Circuits have all held that a Fourth Amendment malicious prosecution claim is cognizable through 42 U. S. C. §1983 ("Section 1983").
Only the Seventh Circuit holds that a Fourth Amendment Section 1983 malicious prosecution claim is not cognizable."
Pet.
for Cert.
i (emphasis added).
The question's reference to "a malicious prosecution claim" was surely no accident.
First, the conflict on the malicious prosecution question was the centerpiece of Manuel's argument in favor of certiorari.1 Second, unless Manuel is given the benefit of the unique accrual rule for malicious prosecution claims, his claim is untimely, and he is not entitled to relief.
A
I would first consider what I take to be the core of the question presented--whether a "malicious prosecution claim may be brought under the Fourth Amendment."
See ibid.
Manuel asked us to decide that question because it may be critical to his ultimate success in this lawsuit.
Why is that so?
The statute of limitations for Manuel's claim is Illinois's general statute of limitations for personal-injury torts, see Wallace v. Kato, 549 U. S. 384, 387 (2007), which requires suit to be brought within two years of the accrual of the claim, see Ill.
Comp.
Stat., ch.
735, §5/13-202 (West 2010).
Here is the chronology of relevant events in this case:
March 18, 2011: Manuel is arrested and brought before a county court judge, who makes the required probable-cause finding because Manuel was arrested without a warrant.
March 31, 2011: Manuel is indicted by a grand jury.
April 8, 2011: Manuel is arraigned.
May 4, 2011: An assistant state's attorney moves to dismiss the charges, and the motion is granted.
May 5, 2011: Manuel is released from jail.
April 22, 2013: Manuel files his complaint.
Since the statute of limitations requires the commencement of suit within two years of accrual, Manuel's claim is untimely unless it accrued on or after April 22, 2011.
And the only events in the above chronology that occurred within that time frame are the dismissal of the charge against him and his release from custody.
A claim of malicious prosecution "does not accrue until the criminal proceedings have terminated in the plaintiff's favor."
Heck v. Humphrey, 512 U. S. 477, 489 (1994); see 3 Restatement (Second) of Torts §653 (1976).
None of the other common-law torts to which Manuel's claim might be compared--such as false arrest or false imprisonment--has such an accrual date.
See Wallace, supra, at 397 (holding that a claim for false imprisonment under the Fourth Amendment accrues when "the claimant becomes detained pursuant to legal process").
Therefore, if Manuel's case is to go forward, it is essential that his claim be treated like a malicious prosecution claim.
B
Although the Court refuses to decide whether Manuel's claim should be so treated, the answer to that question--the one that the Court actually agreed to review--is straightforward: A malicious prosecution claim cannot be based on the Fourth Amendment.
"The first inquiry in any §1983 suit," the Court has explained, is "to isolate the precise constitutional violation with which [the defendant] is charged."
Baker v. McCollan, 443 U. S. 137, 140 (1979).
In this case, Manuel charges that he was seized without probable cause in violation of the Fourth Amendment.
In order to flesh out the elements of this constitutional tort, we must look for "tort analogies."
Wilson v. Garcia, 471 U. S. 261, 277 (1985).
Manuel says that the appropriate analog is the tort of malicious prosecution, so we should look to the elements of that tort.
To make out a claim for malicious prosecution, a plaintiff generally must show three things: (1) "that the criminal proceeding was initiated or continued by the defendant without 'probable cause,' " W. Keeton, D. Dobbs, P. Keeton, & D. Owen, Prosser and Keeton on Law of Torts 876 (5th ed.
1984) (Prosser and Keeton) (emphasis added), (2) "that the defendant instituted the proceeding 'maliciously,' " id., at 882, and (3) that "the proceedings have terminated in favor of the accused," 3 Restatement (Second) of Torts §653(b); see also Heck, supra, at 489.
There is a severe mismatch between these elements and the Fourth Amendment.
First, the defendants typically named in Fourth Amendment seizure cases--namely, law enforcement officers--lack the authority to initiate or dismiss a prosecution.
See Prosser and Keeton 876.
That authority lies in the hands of prosecutors.
A law enforcement officer, including the officer responsible for the defendant's arrest, may testify before a grand jury, at a preliminary examination, see Ill.
Comp.
Stat., ch.
725, §§5/109-3(b), 5/109-3.1(b) (West 2010), or hearing, see Fed.
Rule Crim.
Proc.
5.1, and at trial.
But when that occurs, the officer is simply a witness and is not responsible for "the decision to press criminal charges."
Rehberg v. Paulk, 566 U. S. 356, 371 (2012).
Second, while subjective bad faith, i.e., malice, is the core element of a malicious prosecution claim, it is firmly established that the Fourth Amendment standard of reasonableness is fundamentally objective.
See Ashcroft v. al-Kidd, 563 U. S. 731, 736 (2011).
These two standards--one subjective and the other objective--cannot co-exist.
In some instances, importing a malice requirement into the Fourth Amendment would leave culpable conduct unpunished.
An officer could act unreasonably, thereby violating the Fourth Amendment, without even a hint of bad faith.
In other cases, the malice requirement would cast too wide a net.
An officer could harbor intense personal ill will toward an arrestee but still act in an objectively reasonable manner in carrying out an arrest.
Finally, malicious prosecution's favorable-termination element makes no sense when the claim is that a seizure violated the Fourth Amendment.
The Fourth Amendment, after all, prohibits all unreasonable seizures--regardless of whether a prosecution is ever brought or how a prosecution ends.
A "Fourth Amendment wrong" "is fully accomplished," United States v. Calandra, 414 U. S. 338, 354 (1974), when an impermissible seizure occurs.
The Amendment is violated and the injury is inflicted no matter what happens in any later proceedings.
Our cases concerning Fourth Amendment claims brought under 42 U. S. C. §1983 prove the point.
For example, we have recognized that there is no favorable-termination element for a Fourth Amendment false imprisonment claim.
See Wallace, 549 U. S., at 389-392.2 An arrestee can file such a claim while his prosecution is pending--and, in at least some situations--will need to do so to ensure that the claim is not time barred.
See id., at 392-395.
By the same token, an individual may seek damages for pretrial Fourth Amendment violations even after a valid conviction.
For example, in Haring v. Prosise, 462 U. S. 306, 308 (1983), the respondent pleaded guilty to a drug crime without raising any Fourth Amendment issues.
He then brought a §1983 suit, challenging the constitutionality of the search that led to the discovery of the drugs on which his criminal charge was based.
The Court held that respondent's suit could proceed--despite his valid conviction.
Id., at 323; see also Heck, 512 U. S., at 487, n. 7 ("[A] suit for damages attributable to an allegedly unreasonable search may lie even if the challenged search produced evidence that was introduced in a state criminal trial resulting in the §1983 plaintiff's still-outstanding conviction").
The favorable-termination element is similarly irrelevant to claims like Manuel's.
Manuel alleges that he was arrested and held based entirely on falsified evidence.
In such a case, it makes no difference whether the prosecution was eventually able to gather and introduce legitimate evidence and to obtain a conviction at trial.
The unlawful arrest and detention would still provide grounds for recovery.
Accordingly, there is no good reason why the accrual of a claim like Manuel's should have to await a favorable termination of the prosecution.
For all these reasons, malicious prosecution is a strikingly inapt "tort analog[y]," Wilson, 471 U. S., at 277, for Fourth Amendment violations.
So the answer to the question presented in Manuel's certiorari petition is that the Fourth Amendment does not give rise to a malicious prosecution claim, and this means that Manuel's suit is untimely.
I would affirm the Seventh Circuit on that basis.
II
Instead of deciding the question on which we granted review, the Court ventures in a different direction.
The Court purports to refrain from deciding any issue of timeliness, see ante, at 10, but the Court's opinion is certain to be read by some to mean that every moment of pretrial confinement without probable cause constitutes a violation of the Fourth Amendment.
And if that is so, it would seem to follow that new Fourth Amendment claims continue to accrue as long as the pretrial detention lasts.
A
That proposition--that every moment in pretrial detention constitutes a "seizure"--is hard to square with the ordinary meaning of the term.
The term "seizure" applies most directly to the act of taking a person into custody or otherwise depriving the person of liberty.
It is not generally used to refer to a prolonged detention.
Dictionary definitions from around the time of the adoption of the Fourth Amendment define the term "seizure" as a single event--and not a continuing condition.
See, e.g., 2 N. Webster, An American Dictionary of the English Language 67 (1828) (Webster) (defining "seizure" as "the act of laying hold on suddenly"); 1 S. Johnson, A Dictionary of the English Language (6th ed.
1785) (defining "seizure" as "the act of taking forcible possession"); 1 T. Dyche & W. Pardon, A New General English Dictionary (14th ed.
1771) (defining "seize" as "to lay or take hold of violently or at unawares, wrongfully, or by force").
As the Court has explained before, "[f]rom the time of the founding to the present, the word 'seizure' has meant a 'taking possession.' "
California v. Hodari D., 499 U. S. 621, 624 (1991) (quoting 2 Webster 67).
And we have cautioned against "stretch[ing] the Fourth Amendment beyond its words and beyond the meaning of arrest."
499 U. S., at 627.
The Members of Congress who proposed the Fourth Amendment and the State legislatures that ratified the Amendment would have expected to see a more expansive term, such as "detention" or "confinement," if a Fourth Amendment seizure could be a long event that continued throughout the entirety of the pretrial period.
In my view, a period of detention spanning weeks or months cannot be viewed as one long, continuing seizure, and a pretrial detainee is not "seized" over and over again as long as he remains in custody.3 Of course, the damages resulting from an unlawful seizure may continue to mount during the period of confinement caused by the seizure, but no new Fourth Amendment seizure claims accrue after that date.4 Thus, any possible Fourth Amendment claim that Manuel could bring is time barred.
B
The Court is mistaken in saying that its decision "follows from settled precedent."
Ante, at 1.
The Court reads Albright v. Oliver, 510 U. S. 266 (1994), and Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U. S. 103 (1975), to mean that the Fourth Amendment can be violated "when legal process itself goes wrong," ante, at 9, but the accuracy of that interpretation depends on the meaning of "legal process."
The Court's reading is correct if by "legal process" the Court means a determination of probable cause at a first or initial appearance.
See Ill.
Comp.
Stat., ch.
725, §5/109-1 (West Supp.
2015); Fed.
Rule Crim.
Proc.
5(b).
When an arrest warrant is obtained, the probable-cause determination is made at that time, and there is thus no need for a repeat determination at the first or initial appearance.
But when an arrest is made without a warrant, the arrestee, generally within 48 hours, must be brought before a judicial officer, County of Riverside v. McLaughlin, 500 U. S. 44, 56 (1991), who then completes the arrest process by making the same determination that would have been made as part of the warrant application process.
See Ill.
Comp.
Stat., ch.
725, §§5/109-1(a), (b); Fed.
Rule Crim.
Proc.
4(a), 5(b).
Thus, this appearance is an integral part of the process of taking the arrestee into custody and easily falls within the meaning of the term "seizure."
But other forms of "legal process," for example, a grand jury indictment or a determination of probable cause at a preliminary examination or hearing, do not fit within the concept of a "seizure," and the cases cited by the Court do not suggest otherwise.
Take Albright first.
A detective named Oliver procured a warrant for the arrest of Albright for distributing a "look-alike" substance.
See Albright v. Oliver, 975 F. 2d 343, 344 (CA7 1992).
The warrant was based on information given to Oliver by the purchaser of the substance.
Ibid.
After learning of the warrant, Albright turned himself in, was booked, and was released on bond.
Ibid.
Oliver testified at what Illinois calls a preliminary examination and apparently related the information provided by the alleged purchaser.
Ibid.
The judge found probable cause, but the charges were later dismissed.
Ibid.
According to the Seventh Circuit, probable cause was sorely lacking, id., at 345, and Albright sued Oliver under 42 U. S. C. §1983, claiming that Oliver had violated his substantive due process right not to be prosecuted without probable cause.
All that this Court held was that Albright's claim had to be analyzed under the Fourth Amendment, not substantive due process.
The Court now reads Albright to mean that a Fourth Amendment seizure continues "after the start of 'legal process," but three forms of what might be termed "legal process" were issued in Albright: the arrest warrant, the order releasing him on bond after his first appearance, and the order holding him over for trial after the preliminary examination.
I agree that Albright's seizure did not end with the issuance of the warrant (that would be ridiculous since he had not even been arrested at that point) or the first appearance, see ante, at 8-9, and n. 6, but it is impossible to read anything more into the holding in Albright.
The terse plurality opinion joined by four Justices said no more; the opinion of Justice Scalia, who joined the plurality opinion, referred only to Albright's "arrest," 510 U. S., at 275 (concurring opinion); and Justices Kennedy and Thomas, who concurred in the judgment, did so only because Albright's "allegation of arrest without probable cause must be analyzed under the Fourth Amendment."
Id., at 281 (Kennedy, J., concurring in the judgment).
To read anything more into Albright is to adopt the position taken by just one Member of the plurality, see id., at 279 (Ginsburg, J., concurring) (seizure continues throughout the period of pretrial detention), and the two Justices in dissent, see id., at 307 (Stevens, J., dissenting) (same).
The other precedent on which the Court relies, Gerstein, goes no further than Albright.
All that the Court held in Gerstein was that if there is no probable-cause finding by a neutral magistrate before an arrest, there must be one after the arrest.
420 U. S., at 111-116.
The Court reasoned that "the Fourth Amendment requires a judicial determination of probable cause as a prerequisite to extended restraint of liberty following arrest."
Id., at 114.
The Court said nothing about whether a claim for a seizure in violation of the Fourth Amendment could accrue after an initial appearance.
The Court thus is forced to rely on dicta--taken out of context--from Gerstein.
For example, the Court cites Gerstein's statement that "[t]he Fourth Amendment was tailored explicitly for the criminal justice system," and that it "always has been thought to define the 'process that is due' for seizures of person[s] . . . in criminal cases, including the detention of suspects pending trial."
Id., at 125, n. 27.
This statement hardly shows that a Fourth Amendment seizure continues throughout a period of pretrial detention, and the Court does not mention the very next sentence in Gerstein--which suggests that the Fourth Amendment might govern "only the first stage" of a prosecution, eventually giving way to other protections that are also part of our "elaborate system, unique in jurisprudence, designed to safeguard the rights of those accused of criminal conduct."
Ibid.
(emphasis deleted).
In the end, Gerstein stands for the proposition that the Fourth Amendment requires a post-arrest probable cause finding by a neutral magistrate; it says nothing about whether the Fourth Amendment extends beyond that or any other "legal process."
*??*??*
A well-known medical maxim--"first, do no harm"--is a good rule of thumb for courts as well.
The Court's decision today violates that rule by avoiding the question presented in order to reach an unnecessary and tricky issue.
The resulting opinion will, I fear, inject much confusion into Fourth Amendment law.
And it has the potential to do much harm--by dramatically expanding Fourth Amendment liability under §1983 in a way that does violence to the text of the Fourth Amendment.
I respectfully dissent.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
Because we here review an order dismissing Manuel's suit, we accept as true all the factual allegations in his complaint.
See, e.g., Leatherman v. Tarrant County Narcotics Intelligence and Coordination Unit, 507 U. S. 163, 164 (1993).
Footnote 2
Although not addressed in Manuel's complaint, the police department's alleged fabrications did not stop at this initial hearing on probable cause.
About two weeks later, on March 30, a grand jury indicted Manuel based on similar false evidence: testimony from one of the arresting officers that "[t]he pills field tested positive" for ecstasy.
App.
96 (grand jury minutes).
Footnote 3
Manuel's allegation of unlawful detention concerns only the period after the onset of legal process--here meaning, again, after the County Court found probable cause that he had committed a crime.
See supra, at 3.
The police also held Manuel in custody for several hours between his warrantless arrest and his first appearance in court.
But throughout this litigation, Manuel has treated that short period as part and parcel of the initial unlawful arrest.
See, e.g., Reply Brief 1.
Footnote 4
See also Singer v. Fulton County Sheriff, 63 F. 3d 110, 114-118 (CA2 1995); McKenna v. Philadelphia, 582 F. 3d 447, 461 (CA3 2009); Lambert v. Williams, 223 F. 3d 257, 260-262 (CA4 2000); Castellano v. Fragozo, 352 F. 3d 939, 953-954, 959-960 (CA5 2003) (en banc); Sykes v. Anderson, 625 F. 3d 294, 308-309 (CA6 2010); Galbraith v. County of Santa Clara, 307 F. 3d 1119, 1126-1127 (CA9 2002); Wilkins v. De- Reyes, 528 F. 3d 790, 797-799 (CA10 2008); Whiting v. Traylor, 85 F. 3d 581, 584-586 (CA11 1996); Pitt v. District of Columbia, 491 F. 3d 494, 510-511 (CADC 2007).
Footnote 5
The Court repeated the same idea in a follow-on decision to Gerstein.
In County of Riverside v. McLaughlin, 500 U. S. 44, 47 (1991), we considered how quickly a jurisdiction must provide the probable-cause determination that Gerstein demanded "as a prerequisite to an extended pretrial detention."
In holding that the decision should occur within 48 hours of an arrest, the majority understood its "task [as] articulat[ing] more clearly the boundaries of what is permissible under the Fourth Amendment."
500 U. S., at 56.
In arguing for still greater speed, the principal dissent invoked the original meaning of "the Fourth Amendment's prohibition of 'unreasonable seizures,' insofar as it applies to seizure of the person."
Id., at 60 (Scalia, J., dissenting).
The difference between the two opinions was significant, but the commonality still more so: All Justices agreed that the Fourth Amendment provides the appropriate lens through which to view a claim involving pretrial detention.
Footnote 6
The opposite view would suggest an untenable result: that a person arrested pursuant to a warrant could not bring a Fourth Amendment claim challenging the reasonableness of even his arrest, let alone any subsequent detention.
An arrest warrant, after all, is a way of initiating legal process, in which a magistrate finds probable cause that a person committed a crime.
See Wallace v. Kato, 549 U. S. 384, 389 (2007) (explaining that the seizure of a person was "without legal process" because police officers "did not have a warrant for his arrest"); W. Keeton, D. Dobbs, R. Keeton, & D. Owen, Prosser and Keeton on Law of Torts §119, pp. 871, 886 (5th ed.
1984) (similar).
If legal process is the cut-off point for the Fourth Amendment, then someone arrested (as well as later held) under a warrant procured through false testimony would have to look to the Due Process Clause for relief.
But that runs counter to our caselaw.
See, e.g., Whiteley v. Warden, Wyo.
State Penitentiary, 401 U. S. 560, 568-569 (1971) (holding that an arrest violated the Fourth Amendment because a magistrate's warrant was not backed by probable cause).
And if the Seventh Circuit would reply that arrest warrants are somehow different--that there is legal process and then again there is legal process--the next (and in our view unanswerable) question would be why.
Footnote 7
Even the City no longer appears to contest that conclusion.
On multiple occasions during oral argument in this Court, the City agreed that "a Fourth Amendment right . . . survive[d] the initiation of process" at the hearing in which the county judge found probable cause and ordered detention.
Tr.
of Oral Arg.
31; see id., at 33 (concurring with the statement that "once [an] individual is brought . . . before a magistrate, and the magistrate using the same bad evidence says, stay here in jail . . . until we get to trial, that that period is a violation of the Fourth Amendment"); id., at 51 (stating that a detainee has "a Fourth Amendment claim" if "misstatements at [such a probable-cause hearing] led to ongoing pretrial seizure").
Footnote 8
The dissent goes some way toward claiming that a different kind of pretrial legal process--a grand jury indictment or preliminary examination--does expunge such a Fourth Amendment claim.
See post, at 9, n. 4 (opinion of Alito, J.) (raising but "not decid[ing] that question"); post, at 10 (suggesting an answer nonetheless).
The effect of that view would be to cut off Manuel's claim on the date of his grand jury indictment (March 30)--even though that indictment (like the County Court's probable-cause proceeding) was entirely based on false testi-mony and even though Manuel remained in detention for 36 days longer.
See n. 2, supra.
Or said otherwise--even though the legal process he received failed to establish the probable cause necessary for his continued confinement.
We can see no principled reason to draw that line.
Nothing in the nature of the legal proceeding establishing probable cause makes a difference for purposes of the Fourth Amendment: Whatever its precise form, if the proceeding is tainted--as here, by fabricated evidence--and the result is that probable cause is lacking, then the ensuing pretrial detention violates the confined person's Fourth Amendment rights, for all the reasons we have stated.
By contrast (and contrary to the dissent's suggestion, see post, at 9, n. 3), once a trial has occurred, the Fourth Amendment drops out: A person challenging the sufficiency of the evidence to support both a conviction and any ensuing incarceration does so under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
See Jackson v. Virginia, 443 U. S. 307, 318 (1979) (invalidating a conviction under the Due Process Clause when "the record evidence could [not] reasonably support a finding of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt"); Thompson v. Louisville, 362 U. S. 199, 204 (1960) (striking a conviction under the same provision when "the record [wa]s entirely lacking in evidence" of guilt--such that it could not even establish probable cause).
Gerstein and Albright, as already suggested, both reflected and recognized that constitutional division of labor.
See supra, at 6-8.
In their words, the Framers "drafted the Fourth Amendment" to address "the matter of pretrial deprivations of liberty," Albright, 510 U. S., at 274 (emphasis added), and the Amendment thus provides "standards and procedures" for "the detention of suspects pending trial," Gerstein, 420 U. S., at 125, n. 27 (emphasis added).
Footnote 9
The two exceptions--the Ninth and D. C. Circuits--have not yet weighed in on whether a Fourth Amendment claim like Manuel's includes a "favorable termination" element.
Footnote 10
The dissent would have us address these questions anyway, on the ground that "the conflict on the malicious prosecution question was the centerpiece of Manuel's argument in favor of certiorari."
Post, at 2.
But the decision below did not implicate a "conflict on the malicious prosecution question"--because the Seventh Circuit, in holding that detainees like Manuel could not bring a Fourth Amendment claim at all, never considered whether (and, if so, how) that claim should resemble the malicious prosecution tort.
Nor did Manuel's petition for certiorari suggest otherwise.
The principal part of his question presented--mirroring the one and only Circuit split involving the decision below--reads as follows: "[W]hether an individual's Fourth Amendment right to be free from unreasonable seizure continues beyond legal process."
Pet.
for Cert.
i.
That is exactly the issue we have resolved.
The rest of Manuel's question did indeed express a view as to what would follow from an affirmative answer ("so as to allow a malicious prosecution claim").
Ibid.
(And as the dissent notes, the Seventh Circuit recounted that he made the same argument in that court.
See post, at 2, n. 1.)
But as to that secondary issue, we think (for all the reasons just stated) that Manuel jumped the gun.
See supra, at 11-14.
And contra the dissent, his doing so provides no warrant for our doing so too.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
The Court defends this evasion on the ground that it is resolving "the one and only Circuit split involving the decision below."
Ante, at 15, n. 10.
That is flatly wrong.
As the Seventh Circuit acknowledged, its decision in this case and an earlier case on which the decision here relied, Newsome v. McCabe, 256 F. 3d 747 (2001), conflict with decisions of other circuits holding that a malicious prosecution claim may be brought under the Fourth Amendment.
The decision below states: "Manuel argues that we should reconsider our holding in Newsome and recognize a federal claim for malicious prosecution under the Fourth Amendment regardless of the available state remedy.
By his count, 10 other Circuits have recognized federal malicious-prosecution claims under the Fourth Amendment."
590 Fed.
Appx.
641, 643 (2015).
The court refused to overrule Newsome and said that "Manuel's argument is better left for the Supreme Court."
Ibid.
Manuel's petition for a writ of certiorari repeatedly made the same point.
See Pet.
for Cert.
2 ("The Seventh Circuit stands alone among circuits in not allowing a federal malicious prosecution claim grounded on the Fourth Amendment"); id., at 10 ("Ten Federal Circuits Correctly Hold That Malicious Prosecution is Actionable as a Fourth Amendment, Section 1983 Claim"); ibid.
("[E]ight circuits have held that malicious prosecution is cognizable through a Section 1983 Fourth Amendment claim").
All of the decisions that are cited as being in conflict with the decision below involved malicious prosecution claims and are described as such.
See id., at 10-11.
Footnote 2
In Wallace, the Court noted that "[f]alse arrest and false imprisonment overlap" and decided to "refer to the two torts together as false imprisonment."
549 U. S., at 388-389.
Footnote 3
By the Court's logic, there is no apparent reason why even a judgment of conviction should cut off the accrual of new Fourth Amendment claims based on the use of fabricated evidence.
The Court writes that "[n]othing in the nature of the legal proceeding establishing probable cause makes a difference for purposes of the Fourth Amendment."
Ante, at 11, n. 8. "
[I]f the proceeding is tainted--as here, by fabricated evidence--and the result is that probable cause is lacking," the Court continues, "then the ensuing pretrial detention violates the confined person's Fourth Amendment rights, for all the reasons we have stated."
Ibid.
Although the Court inserts the word "pretrial" in this sentence, its logic provides no reason for that limitation.
If a Fourth Amendment seizure continues as long as a person is detained, there is no reason why incarceration after conviction cannot be regarded as a continuing seizure.
The Court asserts that the Fourth Amendment "drops out of the picture" after trial, ibid., but it does not explain why this is so.
There are facilities that house both pretrial detainees and prisoners serving sentences.
If a detainee is transferred following conviction from the section for detainees to the section for prisoners, does the transfer render this person "unseized"?
Footnote 4
There is authority for the proposition that a grand jury indictment or a determination of probable cause after an adversary proceeding may be an intervening cause that cuts off liability for an unlawful arrest.
See Wallace v. Kato, 494 U. S. 384, 390 (2007); Prosser and Keeton 885.
I would not decide that question here.
United States Supreme Court
MARINELLO v. UNITED STATES, (2018)
No. 16-1144
Argued: December 6, 2017    Decided: March 21, 2018
Between 2004 and 2009, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) intermittently investigated petitioner Marinello's tax activities.
In 2012, the Government indicted Marinello for violating, among other criminal tax statutes, a provision in 26 U. S. C. §7212(a) known as the Omnibus Clause, which forbids "corruptly or by force or threats of force . . . obstruct[ing] or imped[ing], or endeavor[ing] to obstruct or impede, the due administration of [the Internal Revenue Code]."
The judge instructed the jury that, to convict Marinello of an Omnibus Clause violation, it must find that he "corruptly" engaged in at least one of eight specified activities, but the jury was not told that it needed to find that Marinello knew he was under investigation and intended corruptly to interfere with that investigation.
Marinello was convicted.
The Second Circuit affirmed, rejecting his claim that an Omnibus Clause violation requires the Government to show the defendant tried to interfere with a pending IRS proceeding, such as a particular investigation.
Held: To convict a defendant under the Omnibus Clause, the Government must prove the defendant was aware of a pending tax-related proceeding, such as a particular investigation or audit, or could reasonably foresee that such a proceeding would commence.
Pp. 3-11.
(a) In United States v. Aguilar, 515 U. S. 593, this Court interpreted a similarly worded criminal statute--which made it a felony "corruptly or by threats or force . . . [to] influenc[e], obstruc[t], or imped[e], or endeavo[r] to influence, obstruct, or impede, the due administration of justice," 18 U. S. C. §1503(a).
There, the Court required the Government to show there was a "nexus" between the defendant's obstructive conduct and a particular judicial proceeding.
The Court said that the defendant's "act must have a relationship in time, causation, or logic with the judicial proceedings."
515 U. S., at 599.
In reaching this conclusion, the Court emphasized that it has "traditionally exercised restraint in assessing the reach of a federal criminal statute, both out of deference to the prerogatives of Congress and out of concern that 'a fair warning should be given to the world in language that the common world will understand, of what the law intends to do if a certain line is passed.' "
Id., at 600.
That reasoning applies here with similar strength.
The verbs "obstruct" and "impede" require an object.
The taxpayer must hinder a particular person or thing.
The object in §7212(a) is the "due administration of [the Tax Code]."
That phrase is best viewed, like the "due administration of justice" in Aguilar, as referring to discrete targeted administrative acts rather than every conceivable task involved in the Tax Code's administration.
Statutory context confirms this reading.
The Omnibus Clause appears in the middle of a sentence that refers to efforts to "intimidate or impede any officer or employee of the United States acting in an official capacity."
§7212(a).
The first part of the sentence also refers to "force or threats of force," which the statute elsewhere defines as "threats of bodily harm to the officer or employee of the United States or to a member of his family."
Ibid.
And §7212(b) refers to the "forcibl[e] rescu[e]" of "any property after it shall have been seized under" the Internal Revenue Code.
Subsections (a) and (b) thus refer to corrupt or forceful actions taken against individual identifiable persons or property.
In context, the Omnibus Clause logically serves as a "catchall" for the obstructive conduct the subsection sets forth, not for every violation that interferes with routine administrative procedures such as the processing of tax returns, receipt of tax payments, or issuance of tax refunds.
The statute's legislative history does not suggest otherwise.
The broader context of the full Internal Revenue Code also counsels against a broad reading.
Interpreting the Omnibus Clause to apply to all Code administration could transform the Code's numerous misdemeanor provisions into felonies, making them redundant or perhaps the subject matter of plea bargaining.
It could also result in a similar lack of fair warning and related kinds of unfairness that led this Court to "exercise" interpretive "restraint" in Aguilar.
See 515 U. S., at 600.
The Government claims that the "corrupt state of mind" requirement will cure any overbreadth problem, but it is difficult to imagine a scenario when that requirement will make a practical difference in the context of federal tax prosecutions.
And to rely on prosecutorial discretion to narrow the otherwise wide-ranging scope of a criminal statute's general language places too much power in the prosecutor's hands.
Pp. 3-9.
(b) Following the same approach taken in similar cases, the Government here must show that there is a "nexus" between the defendant's conduct and a particular administrative proceeding, such as an investigation, an audit, or other targeted administrative action.
See Aguilar, supra, at 599.
The term "particular administrative proceeding" does not mean every act carried out by IRS employees in the course of their administration of the Tax Code.
Just because a taxpayer knows that the IRS will review her tax return annually does not transform every Tax Code violation into an obstruction charge.
In addition to satisfying the nexus requirement, the Government must show that the proceeding was pending at the time the defendant engaged in the obstructive conduct or, at the least, was then reasonably foreseeable by the defendant.
See Arthur Andersen LLP v. United States, 544 U. S. 696, 703, 707-708.
Pp. 9-11.
839 F. 3d 209, reversed and remanded.
Breyer, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Ginsburg, Sotomayor, Kagan, and Gorsuch, JJ., joined.
Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Alito, J., joined.
Opinion of the Court
584 U. S. ____ (2018)
NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 16-1144
CARLO J. MARINELLO, II, PETITIONER v.
UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit
[March 21, 2018]
Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.
A clause in §7212(a) of the Internal Revenue Code makes it a felony "corruptly or by force" to "endeavo[r] to obstruct or imped[e] the due administration of this title."
26 U. S. C. §7212(a).
The question here concerns the breadth of that statutory phrase.
Does it cover virtually all governmental efforts to collect taxes?
Or does it have a narrower scope?
In our view, "due administration of [the Tax Code]" does not cover routine administrative procedures that are near-universally applied to all taxpayers, such as the ordinary processing of income tax returns.
Rather, the clause as a whole refers to specific interference with targeted governmental tax-related proceedings, such as a particular investigation or audit.
I
The Internal Revenue Code provision at issue, §7212(a), has two substantive clauses.
The first clause, which we shall call the "Officer Clause," forbids
"corruptly or by force or threats of force (including any threatening letter or communication) endeavor[ing] to intimidate or impede any officer or employee of the United States acting in an official capacity under [the Internal Revenue Code]."
Ibid.
(emphasis added).
The second clause, which we shall call the "Omnibus Clause," forbids
"corruptly or by force or threats of force (including any threatening letter or communication) obstruct[ing] or imped[ing], or endeavor[ing] to obstruct or impede, the due administration of [the Internal Revenue Code]."
Ibid.
(emphasis added).
As we said at the outset, we here consider the scope of the Omnibus Clause.
(We have placed the full text of §7212 in the Appendix, infra.)
Between 2004 and 2009, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) opened, then closed, then reopened an investigation into the tax activities of Carlo Marinello, the petitioner here.
In 2012 the Government indicted Marinello, charging him with violations of several criminal tax statutes including the Omnibus Clause.
In respect to the Omnibus Clause the Government claimed that Marinello had engaged in at least one of eight different specified activities, including "failing to maintain corporate books and records," "failing to provide" his tax accountant "with complete and accurate" tax "information," "destroying . . . business records," "hiding income," and "paying employees . . . with cash."
839 F. 3d 209, 213 (CA2 2016).
Before the jury retired to consider the charges, the judge instructed it that, to convict Marinello of violating the Omnibus Clause, it must find unanimously that he engaged in at least one of the eight practices just mentioned, that the jurors need not agree on which one, and that he did so "corruptly," meaning "with the intent to secure an unlawful advantage or benefit, either for [himself ] or for another."
App.
in No. 15-2224 (CA2), p. 432.
The judge, however, did not instruct the jury that it must find that Marinello knew he was under investigation and intended corruptly to interfere with that investigation.
The jury subsequently convicted Marinello on all counts.
Marinello appealed to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
He argued, among other things, that a violation of the Omnibus Clause requires the Government to show that the defendant had tried to interfere with a "pending IRS proceeding," such as a particular investigation.
Brief for Appellant in No. 15-2224, pp. 23-25.
The appeals court disagreed.
It held that a defendant need not possess " 'an awareness of a particular [IRS] action or investigation.' "
839 F. 3d, at 221 (quoting United States v. Wood, 384 Fed.
Appx.
698, 704 (CA2 2010); alteration in original).
The full Court of Appeals rejected Marinello's petition for rehearing, two judges dissenting.
855 F. 3d 455 (CA2 2017).
Marinello then petitioned for certiorari, asking us to decide whether the Omnibus Clause requires the Government to prove the defendant was aware of "a pending IRS action or proceeding, such as an investigation or audit," when he "engaged in the purportedly obstructive conduct."
Pet.
for Cert.
i.
In light of a division of opinion among the Circuits on this point, we granted the petition.
Compare United States v. Kassouf, 144 F. 3d 952 (CA6 1998) (requiring showing of a pending proceeding), with 839 F. 3d, at 221 (disagreeing with Kassouf ).
II
In United States v. Aguilar, 515 U. S. 593 (1995), we interpreted a similarly worded criminal statute.
That statute made it a felony "corruptly or by threats or force, or by any threatening letter or communication, [to] influenc[e], obstruc[t], or imped[e], or endeavo[r] to influence, obstruct, or impede, the due administration of justice."
18 U. S. C. §1503(a).
The statute concerned not (as here) "the due administration of" the Internal Revenue Code but rather "the due administration of justice."
(We have placed the full text of §1503 in the Appendix, infra.)
In interpreting that statute we pointed to earlier cases in which courts had held that the Government must prove "an intent to influence judicial or grand jury proceedings."
Aguilar, supra, at 599 (citing United States v. Brown, 688 F. 2d 596, 598 (CA9 1982)).
We noted that some courts had imposed a " 'nexus' requirement": that the defendant's "act must have a relationship in time, causation, or logic with the judicial proceedings."
Aguilar, supra, at 599 (citing United States v. Wood, 6 F. 3d 692, 696 (CA10 1993), and United States v. Walasek, 527 F. 2d 676, 679, and n. 12 (CA3 1975)).
And we adopted the same requirement.
We set forth two important reasons for doing so.
We wrote that we "have traditionally exercised restraint in assessing the reach of a federal criminal statute, both out of deference to the prerogatives of Congress and out of concern that 'a fair warning should be given to the world in language that the common world will understand, of what the law intends to do if a certain line is passed.' "
Aguilar, supra, at 600 (quoting McBoyle v. United States, 283 U. S. 25, 27 (1931); citation omitted).
Both reasons apply here with similar strength.
As to Congress' intent, the literal language of the statute is neutral.
The statutory words "obstruct or impede" are broad.
They can refer to anything that "block[s]," "make[s] difficult," or "hinder[s]."
Black's Law Dictionary 1246 (10th ed.
2014) (obstruct); Webster's New International Dictionary (Webster's) 1248 (2d ed.
1954) (impede); id., at 1682 (obstruct); accord, 5 Oxford English Dictionary 80 (1933) (impede); 7 id., at 36 (obstruct).
But the verbs "obstruct" and "impede" suggest an object--the taxpayer must hinder a particular person or thing.
Here, the object is the "due administration of this title."
The word "administration" can be read literally to refer to every "[a]ct or process of administering" including every act of "managing" or "conduct[ing]" any "office," or "performing the executive duties of" any "institution, business, or the like."
Webster's 34.
But the whole phrase--the due administration of the Tax Code--is best viewed, like the due administration of justice, as referring to only some of those acts or to some separable parts of an institution or business.
Cf. Aguilar, supra, at 600-601 (concluding false statements made to an investigating agent, rather than a grand jury, do not support a conviction for obstruction of justice).
Here statutory context confirms that the text refers to specific, targeted acts of administration.
The Omnibus Clause appears in the middle of a statutory sentence that refers specifically to efforts to "intimidate or impede any officer or employee of the United States acting in an official capacity."
26 U. S. C. §7212(a) (emphasis added).
The first part of the sentence also refers to "force or threats of force," which the statute elsewhere defines as "threats of bodily harm to the officer or employee of the United States or to a member of his family."
Ibid.
(emphasis added).
The following subsection refers to the "forcibl[e] rescu[e]" of "any property after it shall have been seized under" the Internal Revenue Code.
§7212(b) (emphasis added).
Subsections (a) and (b) thus refer to corrupt or forceful actions taken against individual identifiable persons or property.
And, in that context the Omnibus Clause logically serves as a "catchall" in respect to the obstructive conduct the subsection sets forth, not as a "catchall" for every violation that interferes with what the Government describes as the "continuous, ubiquitous, and universally known" administration of the Internal Revenue Code.
Brief in Opposition 9.
Those who find legislative history helpful can find confirmation of the more limited scope of the Omnibus Clause in the House and Senate Reports written when Congress first enacted the Omnibus Clause.
See H. R. Rep. No. 1337, 83d Cong., 2d Sess.
(1954); S. Rep. No. 1622, 83d Cong., 2d Sess.
(1954).
According to the House Report, §7212 "provides for the punishment of threats or threatening acts against agents of the Internal Revenue Service, or any other officer or employee of the United States, or members of the families of such persons, on account of the performance by such agents or officers or employees of their official duties" and "will also punish the corrupt solicitation of an internal revenue employee."
H. R. Rep. No. 1337, at A426 (emphasis added).
The Senate Report also refers to the section as aimed at targeting officers and employees.
It says that §7212 "covers all cases where the officer is intimidated or injured; that is, where corruptly, by force or threat of force, directly or by communication, an attempt is made to impede the administration of the internal-revenue laws."
S. Rep. No. 1622, at 147 (emphasis added).
We have found nothing in the statute's history suggesting that Congress intended the Omnibus Clause as a catchall applicable to the entire Code including the routine processing of tax returns, receipt of tax payments, and issuance of tax refunds.
Viewing the Omnibus Clause in the broader statutory context of the full Internal Revenue Code also counsels against adopting the Government's broad reading.
That is because the Code creates numerous misdemeanors, ranging from willful failure to furnish a required statement to employees, §7204, to failure to keep required records, §7203, to misrepresenting the number of exemptions to which an employee is entitled on IRS Form W-4, §7205, to failure to pay any tax owed, however small the amount, §7203.
To interpret the Omnibus Clause as applying to all Code administration would potentially transform many, if not all, of these misdemeanor provisions into felonies, making the specific provisions redundant, or perhaps the subject matter of plea bargaining.
Some overlap in criminal provisions is, of course, inevitable.
See, e.g., Sansone v. United States, 380 U. S. 343, 349 (1965) (affirming conviction for tax evasion despite overlap with other provisions).
Indeed, as the dissent notes, post, at 8 (opinion of Thomas, J.), Marinello's preferred reading of §7212 potentially overlaps with another provision of federal law that criminalizes the obstruction of the "due and proper administration of the law under which any pending proceeding is being had before any department or agency of the United States," 18 U. S. C. §1505.
But we have not found any case from this Court interpreting a statutory provision that would create overlap and redundancy to the degree that would result from the Government's broad reading of §7212--particularly when it would " 'render superfluous other provisions in the same enactment.' "
Freytag v. Commissioner, 501 U. S. 868, 877 (1991) (quoting Pennsylvania Dept. of Public Welfare v. Davenport, 495 U. S. 552, 562 (1990); see also Yates v. United States, 574 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 13).
A broad interpretation would also risk the lack of fair warning and related kinds of unfairness that led this Court in Aguilar to "exercise" interpretive "restraint."
See 515 U. S., at 600; see also Yates, supra, at ___-___ (slip op., at 18-19); Arthur Andersen LLP v. United States, 544 U. S. 696, 703-704 (2005).
Interpreted broadly, the provision could apply to a person who pays a babysitter $41 per week in cash without withholding taxes, see 26 CFR §31.3102-1(a)(2017); IRS, Publication 926, pp. 5-6 (2018), leaves a large cash tip in a restaurant, fails to keep donation receipts from every charity to which he or she contributes, or fails to provide every record to an accountant.
Such an individual may sometimes believe that, in doing so, he is running the risk of having violated an IRS rule, but we sincerely doubt he would believe he is facing a potential felony prosecution for tax obstruction.
Had Congress intended that outcome, it would have spoken with more clarity than it did in §7212(a).
The Government argues that the need to show the defendant's obstructive conduct was done "corruptly" will cure any overbreadth problem.
But we do not see how.
The Government asserts that "corruptly" means acting with "the specific intent to obtain an unlawful advantage" for the defendant or another.
See Tr.
of Oral Arg.
37; accord, 839 F. 3d, at 218.
Yet, practically speaking, we struggle to imagine a scenario where a taxpayer would "willfully" violate the Tax Code (the mens rea requirement of various tax crimes, including misdemeanors, see, e.g., 26 U. S. C. §§7203, 7204, 7207) without intending someone to obtain an unlawful advantage.
See Cheek v. United States, 498 U. S. 192, 201 (1991) ("Willfulness . . . requires the Government to prove that the law imposed a duty on the defendant, that the defendant knew of this duty, and that he voluntarily and intentionally violated that duty") A taxpayer may know with a fair degree of certainty that her babysitter will not declare a cash payment as income--and, if so, a jury could readily find that the taxpayer acted to obtain an unlawful benefit for another.
For the same reason, we find unconvincing the dissent's argument that the distinction between "willfully" and "corruptly"--at least as defined by the Government--reflects any meaningful difference in culpability.
See post, at 6-7.
Neither can we rely upon prosecutorial discretion to narrow the statute's scope.
True, the Government used the Omnibus Clause only sparingly during the first few decades after its enactment.
But it used the clause more often after the early 1990's.
Brief for Petitioner 9.
And, at oral argument the Government told us that, where more punitive and less punitive criminal provisions both apply to a defendant's conduct, the Government will charge a violation of the more punitive provision as long as it can readily prove that violation at trial.
Tr.
of Oral Arg.
46-47, 55-57; see Office of the Attorney General, Department Charging and Sentencing Policy (May 10, 2017), online at http://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/ file/965896/download (as last visited Mar. 16, 2018).
Regardless, to rely upon prosecutorial discretion to narrow the otherwise wide-ranging scope of a criminal statute's highly abstract general statutory language places great power in the hands of the prosecutor.
Doing so risks allowing "policemen, prosecutors, and juries to pursue their personal predilections," Smith v. Goguen, 415 U. S. 566, 575 (1974), which could result in the nonuniform execution of that power across time and geographic location.
And insofar as the public fears arbitrary prosecution, it risks undermining necessary confidence in the criminal justice system.
That is one reason why we have said that we "cannot construe a criminal statute on the assumption that the Government will 'use it responsibly.' "
McDonnell v. United States, 579 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (slip op., at 23) (quoting United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. 460, 480 (2010)).
And it is why "[w]e have traditionally exercised restraint in assessing the reach of a federal criminal statute."
Aguilar, supra, at 600.
III
In sum, we follow the approach we have taken in similar cases in interpreting §7212(a)'s Omnibus Clause.
To be sure, the language and history of the provision at issue here differ somewhat from that of other obstruction provisions we have considered in the past.
See Aguilar, supra (interpreting a statute prohibiting the obstruction of "the due administration of justice"); Arthur Andersen, supra (interpreting a statute prohibiting the destruction of an object with intent to impair its integrity or availability for use in an official proceeding); Yates, supra (interpreting a statute prohibiting the destruction, concealment, or covering up of any "record, document, or tangible object with the intent to" obstruct the "investigation or proper administration of any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States").
The Government and the dissent urge us to ignore these precedents because of those differences.
The dissent points out, for example, that the predecessor to the obstruction statute we interpreted in Aguilar, 18 U. S. C. §1503, prohibited influencing, intimidating, or impeding "any witness or officer in any court of the United States" or endeavoring "to obstruct or imped[e] the due administration of justice therein."
Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S. 197, 202 (1893) (citing Rev. Stat.
§5399; emphasis added); see post, at 9.
But Congress subsequently deleted the word "therein," leaving only a broadly worded prohibition against obstruction of "the due administration of justice."
Act of June 25, 1948, §1503, 62 Stat.
769-770.
Congress then used that same amended formulation when it enacted §7212, prohibiting the "obstruction of the due administration" of the Tax Code.
Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 68A Stat.
855.
Given this similarity, it is helpful to consider how we have interpreted §1503 and other obstruction statutes in considering §7212.
The language of some and the underlying principles of all these cases are similar.
We consequently find these precedents--though not controlling--highly instructive for use as a guide toward a proper resolution of the issue now before us.
See Smith v. City of Jackson, 544 U. S. 228, 233 (2005).
We conclude that, to secure a conviction under the Omnibus Clause, the Government must show (among other things) that there is a "nexus" between the defendant's conduct and a particular administrative proceeding, such as an investigation, an audit, or other targeted administrative action.
That nexus requires a "relationship in time, causation, or logic with the [administrative] proceeding."
Aguilar, 515 U. S., at 599 (citing Wood, 6 F. 3d, at 696).
By "particular administrative proceeding" we do not mean every act carried out by IRS employees in the course of their "continuous, ubiquitous, and universally known" administration of the Tax Code.
Brief in Opposition 9.
While we need not here exhaustively itemize the types of administrative conduct that fall within the scope of the statute, that conduct does not include routine, day-to-day work carried out in the ordinary course by the IRS, such as the review of tax returns.
The Government contends the processing of tax returns is part of the administration of the Internal Revenue Code and any corrupt effort to interfere with that task can therefore serve as the basis of an obstruction conviction.
But the same could have been said of the defendant's effort to mislead the investigating agent in Aguilar.
The agent's investigation was, at least in some broad sense, a part of the administration of justice.
But we nevertheless held the defendant's conduct did not support an obstruction charge.
515 U. S., at 600.
In light of our decision in Aguilar, we find it appropriate to construe §7212's Omnibus Clause more narrowly than the Government proposes.
Just because a taxpayer knows that the IRS will review her tax return every year does not transform every violation of the Tax Code into an obstruction charge.
In addition to satisfying this nexus requirement, the Government must show that the proceeding was pending at the time the defendant engaged in the obstructive conduct or, at the least, was then reasonably foreseeable by the defendant.
See Arthur Andersen, 544 U. S., at 703, 707-708 (requiring the Government to prove a proceeding was foreseeable in order to convict a defendant for persuading others to shred documents to prevent their "use in an official proceeding").
It is not enough for the Government to claim that the defendant knew the IRS may catch on to his unlawful scheme eventually.
To use a maritime analogy, the proceeding must at least be in the offing.
For these reasons, the Second Circuit's judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
APPENDIX
26 U. S. C. §7212: "Attempts to interfere with administration of internal revenue laws
"(a) Corrupt or forcible interference
"Whoever corruptly or by force or threats of force (including any threatening letter or communication) endeavors to intimidate or impede any officer or employee of the United States acting in an official capacity under this title, or in any other way corruptly or by force or threats of force (including any threatening letter or communication) obstructs or impedes, or endeavors to obstruct or impede, the due administration of this title, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not more than 3 years, or both, except that if the offense is committed only by threats of force, the person convicted thereof shall be fined not more than $3,000, or imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both.
The term 'threats of force', as used in this subsection, means threats of bodily harm to the officer or employee of the United States or to a member of his family.
"(b) Forcible rescue of seized property
"Any person who forcibly rescues or causes to be rescued any property after it shall have been seized under this title, or shall attempt or endeavor so to do, shall, excepting in cases otherwise provided for, for every such offense, be fined not more than $500, or not more than double the value of the property so rescued, whichever is the greater, or be imprisoned not more than 2 years."
18 U. S. C. §1503: "Influencing or injuring officer or juror generally
"(a) Whoever corruptly, or by threats or force, or by any threatening letter or communication, endeavors to influence, intimidate, or impede any grand or petit juror, or officer in or of any court of the United States, or officer who may be serving at any examination or other proceeding before any United States magistrate judge or other committing magistrate, in the discharge of his duty, or injures any such grand or petit juror in his person or property on account of any verdict or indictment assented to by him, or on account of his being or having been such juror, or injures any such officer, magistrate judge, or other committing magistrate in his person or property on account of the performance of his official duties, or corruptly or by threats or force, or by any threatening letter or communication, influences, obstructs, or impedes, or endeavors to influence, obstruct, or impede, the due administration of justice, shall be punished as provided in subsection (b).
If the offense under this section occurs in connection with a trial of a criminal case, and the act in violation of this section involves the threat of physical force or physical force, the maximum term of imprisonment which may be imposed for the offense shall be the higher of that otherwise provided by law or the maximum term that could have been imposed for any offense charged in such case.
"(b) The punishment for an offense under this section is--
"(1) in the case of a killing, the punishment provided in sections 1111 and 1112;
"(2) in the case of an attempted killing, or a case in which the offense was committed against a petit juror and in which a class A or B felony was charged, imprisonment for not more than 20 years, a fine under this title, or both; and
"(3) in any other case, imprisonment for not more than 10 years, a fine under this title, or both."
Thomas, J., dissenting
584 U. S. ____ (2018)
No. 16-1144
CARLO J. MARINELLO, II, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit
[March, 21 2018]
Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito joins, dissenting.
The Omnibus Clause of 26 U. S. C. §7212(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (Tax Code) makes it a felony to "corruptly . . . endeavo[r] to obstruct or imped[e] the due administration of this title." "
[T]his title" refers to Title 26, which contains the entire Tax Code and authorizes the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to calculate, assess, and collect taxes.
I would hold that the Omnibus Clause does what it says: forbid corrupt efforts to impede the IRS from performing any of these activities.
The Court, however, reads "this title" to mean "a particular [IRS] proceeding."
Ante, at 10.
And that proceeding must be either "pending" or "in the offing."
Ante, at 11.
The Court may well prefer a statute written that way, but that is not what Congress enacted.
I respectfully dissent.
I
Petitioner Carlo J. Marinello, II, owned and managed a company that provided courier services.
Marinello, however, kept almost no records of the company's earnings or expenditures.
He shredded or discarded most business records.
He paid his employees in cash and did not give them tax documents.
And he took tens of thousands of dollars from the company each year to pay his personal expenses.
Unbeknownst to Marinello, the IRS began investigating him in 2004.
The IRS learned that he had not filed a tax return--corporate or individual--since at least 1992.
But the investigation came to a standstill because the IRS did not have enough information about Marinello's earnings.
This was not surprising given his diligent efforts to avoid creating a paper trail.
After the investigation ended, Marinello consulted a lawyer and an accountant, both of whom advised him that he needed to file tax returns and keep business records.
Despite these warnings, Marinello did neither for another four years.
In 2009, the IRS decided to investigate Marinello again.
In an interview with an IRS agent, Marinello initially claimed he was exempt from filing tax returns because he made less than $1,000 per year.
Upon further questioning, however, Marinello changed his story.
He admitted that he earned more than $1,000 per year, but said he " 'never got around' " to paying taxes.
839 F. 3d 209, 212 (CA2 2016).
He also admitted that he shredded documents, did not keep track of the company's income or expenses, and used the company's income for personal bills.
His only excuse was that he "took the easy way out."
Ibid.
After just a few hours of deliberation, a jury convicted Marinello of corruptly endeavoring to obstruct or impede the due administration of the Tax Code, §7212(a).
II
Section 7212(a)'s Omnibus Clause prohibits "corruptly . . . obstruct[ing] or imped[ing], or endeavor[ing] to obstruct or impede, the due administration of this title."
I agree with the Court's interpretations of "obstruct or impede" and "due administration," which together refer to conduct that hinders the IRS' performance of its official duties.
See ante, at 4-5.
I also agree that the object of these words--the thing a person is prohibited from obstructing the due administration of--is "this title," i.e., Title 26, which contains the entire Tax Code.
See ante, at 4.
But I part ways when the Court concludes that the whole phrase "due administration of the Tax Code" means "only some of" the Tax Code--specifically "particular [IRS] proceeding[s], such as an investigation, an audit, or other targeted administrative action."
Ante, at 5, 10.
That limitation has no basis in the text.
In my view, the plain text of the Omnibus Clause prohibits obstructing the due administration of the Tax Code in its entirety, not just particular IRS proceedings.
A
The words "this title" cannot be read to mean "only some of this title."
As this Court recently reiterated, phrases such as "this title" most naturally refer to the cited provision "as a whole."
Rubin v. Islamic Republic of Iran, 583 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 8).
Congress used "this title" throughout Title 26 to refer to the Tax Code in its entirety.
See, e.g., §7201 ("[a]ny person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by this title"); §7203 ("[a]ny person required under this title to pay any estimated tax or tax, or required by this title . . . to make a return, keep any records, or supply any information, who willfully fails to [do so]").
And, "[w]hen Congress wanted to refer only to a particular subsection or paragraph, it said so."
NLRB v. SW General, Inc., 580 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 9); see, e.g., §7204 (criminalizing willfully failing to furnish a statement "required under section 6051"); §7207 (criminalizing willfully furnishing fraudulent or materially false information "required pursuant to section 6047(b), section 6104(d), or subsection (i) or (j) of section 527"); §7210 (criminalizing neglecting to appear or produce documents "required under section 6420(e)(2), 6421(g)(2), 6427( j)(2), 7602, 7603, and 7604(b)").
Thus, "this title" must refer to the Tax Code as a whole.
The phrase "due administration of this title" likewise refers to the due administration of the entire Tax Code.
As this Court has recognized, "administration" of the Tax Code includes four basic steps: information gathering, assessment, levy, and collection.
See Direct Marketing Assn. v. Brohl, 575 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2015) (slip op., at 6-7).
The first "phase of tax administration procedure" is "information gathering."
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6); see, e.g., §§6001-6096.
"This step includes private reporting of information used to determine tax liability, including reports by third parties who do not owe the tax."
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6) (citation omitted).
The "next step in the process" is "assessment," which includes "the process by which [a taxpayer's liability] is calculated" and the "official recording of a taxpayer's liability."
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6); see, e.g., §§6201-6241.
After information gathering and assessment come "levy" and "collection."
See id., at ___ (slip op., at 7); see, e.g., §§6301-6344.
Levy refers to "a specific mode of collection under which the Secretary of the Treasury distrains and seizes a recalcitrant taxpayer's property."
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 7).
Collection refers to "the act of obtaining payment of taxes due."
Ibid.
Subtitle F of the Tax Code--titled "Procedure and Administration"--contains directives related to each of these steps.
It requires taxpayers to keep certain records and file certain returns, §6001; specifies that taxpayers with qualifying incomes must file returns, §6012; and authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to create returns for taxpayers who fail to file returns or who file fraudulent ones, §6020.
It requires the Secretary to make inquiries, determinations, and assessments of tax liabilities.
§6201.
And it authorizes the Secretary to collect and levy taxes.
§§6301, 6331.
Subtitle F also gives the Secretary the power to commence proceedings to recover unpaid taxes or fees, §§7401-7410, and to conduct investigations into the accuracy of particular returns, §§7601-7613.
Accordingly, the phrase "due administration of this title" refers to the entire process of taxation, from gathering information to assessing tax liabilities to collecting and levying taxes.
It is not limited to only a few specific provisions within the Tax Code.
B
The Court rejects this straightforward reading, describing the "literal language" of the Omnibus Clause as "neutral."
Ante, at 4.
It concludes that the statute prohibits only acts related to a pending or imminent proceeding.
Ante, at 10-11.
There is no textual or contextual support for this limitation.
The text of the Omnibus Clause is not "neutral"; it omits the limitation that the Court reads into it.
The Omnibus Clause nowhere suggests that "only some of" the processes in the Tax Code are covered, ante, at 5, or that the line between covered and uncovered processes is drawn at some vague notion of "proceeding."
The Omnibus Clause does not use the word "proceeding" at all, but instead refers to the entire Tax Code, which covers much more than that.
This Court cannot "lightly assume that Congress has omitted from its adopted text requirements that it nonetheless intends to apply."
Jama v. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 543 U. S. 335, 341 (2005).
Having failed to find its proposed limit in the text, the Court turns to context.
However, its two contextual arguments fare no better.
First, the Court contends that the Omnibus Clause must be limited to pending or imminent proceedings because the other clauses of §7212 are limited to actions "taken against individual identifiable persons or property."
Ante, at 5.
But specific clauses in a statute typically do not limit the scope of a general omnibus clause.
See Ali v. Federal Bureau of Prisons, 552 U. S. 214, 225 (2008) (explaining that the ejusdem generis canon does not apply to a "disjunctive" phrase in a statute "with one specific and one general category").
Nor do the other clauses in §7212 contain the pending-or-imminent-proceeding requirement that the Court reads into the Omnibus Clause.
See §7212(a) (prohibiting efforts to "intimidate or impede any officer or employee of the United States acting in an official capacity"); §7212(b) (prohibiting "forcibly rescu[ing] or caus[ing] to be rescued any property after it shall have been seized under this title").
They thus provide no support for the Court's atextual limitation.
Second, the Court asserts that its reading prevents the Omnibus Clause from overlapping with certain misdemeanors in the Tax Code.
Ante, at 6-7 (discussing §§7203, 7204, 7205).
But there is no redundancy problem because these provisions have different mens rea requirements.
The Omnibus Clause requires that an act be done "corruptly," but the misdemeanor provisions require that an act be done "willfully."
The difference between these mens rea requirements is significant.
While "willfully" requires proof only "that the law imposed a duty on the defendant, that the defendant knew of this duty, and that he voluntarily and intentionally violated that duty," Cheek v. United States, 498 U. S. 192, 201 (1991), "corruptly" requires proof that the defendant "act[ed] with an intent to procure an unlawful benefit either for [himself] or for some other person," United States v. Floyd, 740 F. 3d 22, 31 (CA1 2014) (collecting cases); see also Black's Law Dictionary 414 (rev. 4th ed.
1951) ("corruptly" "generally imports a wrongful design to acquire some pecuniary or other advantage").
In other words, "corruptly" requires proof that the defendant not only knew he was obtaining an "unlawful benefit" but that his "objective" or "purpose" was to obtain that unlawful benefit.
See 21 Am.
Jur.
2d, Criminal Law §114 (2016) (explaining that specific intent requires both knowledge and purpose).
The Court dismisses the significance of the different mens rea requirements, see ante, at 8, but this difference is important under basic principles of criminal law.
The law recognizes that the same conduct, when committed with a higher mens rea, is more culpable and thus more deserving of punishment.
See Schad v. Arizona, 501 U. S. 624, 643 (1991) (plurality opinion).
For that reason, different mens rea requirements often differentiate culpability for the same conduct.
See, e.g., 40 C. J. S., Homicide §80 (2014) (explaining that the distinction between first- and second-degree murder is based on the defendant's state of mind); §103 (same for voluntary and involuntary manslaughter).
Unless the Court means to cast doubt on this well-established principle, it should not casually dismiss the different mens rea requirements in the Omnibus Clause and the various misdemeanors in the Tax Code.
Even if the Omnibus Clause did overlap with these other misdemeanors, that would prove little.
For better or worse, redundancy abounds in both the criminal law and the Tax Code.
This Court has repeatedly declined to depart from the plain meaning of the text simply because the same conduct would be criminalized under two or more provisions.
See, e.g., Loughrin v. United States, 573 U. S. ___, ___, n. 4 (2014) (slip op., at 7, n. 4) ("No doubt, the overlap between the two clauses is substantial on our reading, but that is not uncommon in criminal statutes"); Hubbard v. United States, 514 U. S. 695, 714, n. 14 (1995) ("Congress may, and often does, enact separate criminal statutes that may, in practice, cover some of the same conduct"); Sansone v. United States, 380 U. S. 343, 352 (1965) (allowing the Government to proceed on a felony tax evasion charge even though that charge " 'covered precisely the same ground' " as two misdemeanors in the Tax Code).
In fact, the Court's interpretation of the Omnibus Clause does not eliminate the redundancy.
Certain misdemeanor offenses in the Tax Code--such as failing to obey a summons, §7210--apply to conduct that takes place during a proceeding and, thus, would still violate the Omnibus Clause under the Court's interpretation.
The Court's interpretation also makes the Omnibus Clause largely redundant with 18 U. S. C. §1505, which already prohibits "corruptly . . . endeavor[ing] to influence, obstruct, or impede the due and proper administration of the law under which any pending proceeding is being had before any department or agency of the United States."
Avoiding redundancy is thus not a reason to favor the Court's interpretation.
Cf. Marx v. General Revenue Corp., 568 U. S. 371, 385 (2013) ("[T]he canon against surplusage 'assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute' ").
*
C
The Court contends that its narrow reading of "due administration of this title" is supported by three decisions interpreting other obstruction statutes, though it admits that the "language and history" of the Omnibus Clause "differ somewhat" from those other obstruction provisions.
Ante, at 9 (citing United States v. Aguilar, 515 U. S. 593 (1995); Arthur Andersen LLP v. United States, 544 U. S. 696 (2005); Yates v. United States, 574 U. S. ___ (2015) (plurality opinion)). "
[D]iffer somewhat" is putting it lightly.
The differences between the Omnibus Clause and those other obstruction statutes demonstrate why the former does not contain the Court's proceeding requirement.
Aguilar interpreted 18 U. S. C. §1503.
The omnibus clause of §1503 forbids corruptly endeavoring to obstruct "the due administration of justice."
The Court concluded that this language requires the prosecution to prove a "nexus" between the defendant's obstructive act and "judicial proceedings."
515 U. S., at 599-600.
But this nexus requirement was based on the specific history of §1503.
The predecessor to that statute prohibited obstructing "the due administration of justice" "in any court of the United States."
Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S. 197, 202 (1893) (citing Rev. Stat.
§5399).
Based on this statutory history, the Court assumed that §1503 continued to refer to the administration of justice in a court.
Aguilar, supra, at 599.
None of that history is present here.
Arthur Anderson is even further afield.
There the Court interpreted 18 U. S. C. §1512(b)(2)(A), which prohibits "knowingly . . . corruptly persuad[ing] another person . . . with intent to . . . cause or induce [that] person to . . . withhold testimony, or withhold a record, document, or other object, from an official proceeding."
Relying on Aguilar, the Court concluded that §1512(b)(2)(A) required the Government to show a "nexus" with "[a] particular proceeding."
544 U. S., at 707-708.
But this nexus requirement came from the statutory text, which expressly included "an official proceeding."
If anything, then, §1512(b)(2)(A) cuts against the Court's interpretation of the Omnibus Clause because it shows that Congress knows how to impose a "proceeding" requirement when it wants to do so.
See Kucana v. Holder, 558 U. S. 233, 248 (2010); Jama, 543 U. S., at 341.
Yates underscores this point.
There the Court interpreted 18 U. S. C. §1519, which prohibits obstructing "the investigation or proper administration of any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States."
The four Justices in the plurality recognized that this language made §1519 broader than other obstruction statutes: Section 1519 "covers conduct intended to impede any federal investigation or proceeding, including one not even on the verge of commencement."
574 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 18).
The plurality contrasted the term "official proceeding" with the phrase "investigation or proper administration of any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency," noting that the latter is broader.
Id., at ___-___ (slip op., at 12-13).
The same is true for the broad language of the Omnibus Clause.
In sum, these cases demonstrate that, when text and history justify it, this Court interprets obstruction statutes to include a proceeding requirement.
But we have never inserted such a requirement into an obstruction statute without textual or historical support.
Today the Court does precisely that.
D
All else having failed, the Court invokes lenity-sounding concerns to justify reading its proceeding requirement into the Omnibus Clause.
See ante, at 4, 7.
But the rule of lenity applies only if after applying ordinary tools of statutory interpretation, "there remains a grievous ambiguity or uncertainty in the statute such that the Court must simply guess as to what Congress intended."
Barber v. Thomas, 560 U. S. 474, 488 (2010) (citation and internal quotation marks omitted).
The Court identifies no such grievous ambiguity in the Omnibus Clause, and breadth is not the same thing as ambiguity.
The Omnibus Clause is both "very broad" and "very clear."
Yates, supra, at ___ (Kagan, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 15).
Lenity does not apply.
If the Court is concerned that the Omnibus Clause does not give defendants "fair warning" of what it prohibits, ante, at 7, I am hard pressed to see how today's decision makes things better.
The Court outlines its atextual proceeding requirement in only the vaguest of terms.
Under its interpretation, the prosecution must prove a "nexus" between the defendant's conduct and some "particular administrative proceeding."
Ante, at 10. "
[P]articular administrative proceeding" is defined negatively as "not . . . every act carried out by IRS employees in the course of their 'continuous, ubiquitous, and universally known' administration of the Tax Code."
Ante, at 10-11.
Further, the Government must prove that the proceeding was "reasonably foreseeable" to the defendant.
Ante, at 11.
"Reasonably foreseeable" is again defined negatively as "not . . . that the defendant knew the IRS may catch onto his unlawful scheme eventually."
Ibid.
It is hard to see how the Court's statute is less vague than the one Congress drafted, which simply instructed individuals not to corruptly obstruct or impede the IRS' administration of the Tax Code.
E
To be sure, §7212(a) is a sweeping obstruction statute.
Congress may well have concluded that a broad statute was warranted because "our tax structure is based on a system of self-reporting" and "the Government depends upon the good faith and integrity of each potential taxpayer to disclose honestly all information relevant to tax liability."
United States v. Bisceglia, 420 U. S. 141, 145 (1975).
Whether or not we agree with Congress' judgment, we must leave the ultimate "[r]esolution of the pros and cons of whether a statute should sweep broadly or narrowly . . . for Congress."
United States v. Rodgers, 466 U. S. 475, 484 (1984). "
[I]t is not our task to assess the consequences of each approach and adopt the one that produces the least mischief.
Our charge is to give effect to the law Congress enacted."
Lewis v. Chicago, 560 U. S. 205, 217 (2010).
The Court frets that the Omnibus Clause might apply to "a person who pays a babysitter $41 per week in cash without withholding taxes," "leaves a large cash tip in a restaurant," "fails to keep donation receipts from every charity," or "fails to provide every record to an accountant."
Ante, at 7.
Whether the Omnibus Clause would cover these hypotheticals--and whether the Government would waste its resources identifying and prosecuting them--is debatable.
But what should not be debatable is that the statute covers Marinello, who systematically shredded documents and hid evidence about his company's earnings to avoid paying taxes even after warnings from his lawyer and accountant.
It is not hard to find similar cases prosecuted under the Omnibus Clause.
See, e.g., United States v. Sorenson, 801 F. 3d 1217, 1221-1222 (CA10 2015) (defendant hid taxable income in elaborate system of trusts); Floyd, 740 F. 3d, at 26-27, 31-32 (defendant created elaborate scheme to avoid paying payroll taxes).
The Court, in its effort to exclude hypotheticals, has constructed an opening in the Omnibus Clause large enough that even the worst offenders can escape liability.
In doing so, it failed to heed what this Court recognized in a similar case: "[T]he authority vested in tax collectors may be abused, as all power is subject to abuse.
However, the solution is not to restrict that authority so as to undermine the efficacy of the federal tax system."
Bisceglia, supra, at 146.
MCWILLIAMS v. DUNN, COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS, ET AL., (2017)
No. 16-5294
Argued: April 24, 2017    Decided: June 19, 2017
Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U. S. 68, 83, clearly established that when an indigent "defendant demonstrates . . . that his sanity at the time of the offense is to be a significant fact at trial, the State must" provide the defendant with "access to a competent psychiatrist who will conduct an appropriate examination and assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
One month after Ake was decided, Alabama charged petitioner McWilliams with rape and murder.
Finding him indigent, the trial court appointed counsel, who requested a psychiatric evaluation of McWilliams.
The court granted the motion and the State convened a commission, which concluded that McWilliams was competent to stand trial and had not been suffering from mental illness at the time of the alleged offense.
A jury convicted McWilliams of capital murder and recommended a death sentence.
Later, while the parties awaited McWilliams' judicial sentencing hearing, McWilliams' counsel asked for neurological and neuropsychological testing of McWilliams.
The court agreed and McWilliams was examined by Dr. Goff.
Dr. Goff filed a report two days before the judicial sentencing hearing.
He concluded that McWilliams was likely exaggerating his symptoms, but nonetheless appeared to have some genuine neuropsychological problems.
Just before the hearing, counsel also received updated records from the commission's evaluation and previously subpoenaed mental health records from the Alabama Department of Corrections.
At the hearing, defense counsel requested a continuance in order to evaluate all the new material, and asked for the assistance of someone with expertise in psychological matters to review the findings.
The trial court denied defense counsel's requests.
At the conclusion of the hearing, the court sentenced McWilliams to death.
On appeal, McWilliams argued that the trial court denied him the right to meaningful expert assistance guarantee by Ake.
The Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed McWilliams' conviction and sentence, holding that Dr. Goff's examination satisfied Ake's requirements.
The State Supreme Court affirmed, and McWilliams failed to obtain state postconviction relief.
On federal habeas review, a Magistrate Judge also found that the Goff examination satisfied Ake and, therefore, that the State Court of Criminal Appeals' decision was not contrary to, or an unreasonable application of, clearly established federal law.
See 28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1).
Adopting the Magistrate Judge's report and recommendation, the District Court denied relief.
The Eleventh Circuit affirmed.
Held:
1.
Ake clearly established that when certain threshold criteria are met, the state must provide a defendant with access to a mental health expert who is sufficiently available to the defense and independent from the prosecution to effectively "conduct an appropriate examination and assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
470 U. S., at 83.
The Alabama courts' determination that McWilliams received all the assistance to which Ake entitled him was contrary to, or an unreasonable application of, clearly established federal law.
Pp. 11-16.
(a) Three preliminary issues require resolution.
First, the conditions that trigger Ake's application are present.
McWilliams is and was an "indigent defendant," 470 U. S., at 70, and his "mental condition" was both "relevant to . . . the punishment he might suffer," id., at 80, and "seriously in question," id., at 70.
Second, this Court rejects Alabama's claim the State was relieved of its Ake obligations because McWilliams received brief assistance from a volunteer psychologist at the University of Alabama.
Even if the episodic help of an outside volunteer could satisfy Ake, the State does not refer to any specific record facts that indicate that the volunteer psychologist was available to the defense at the judicial sentencing proceeding.
Third, contrary to Alabama's suggestion, the record indicates that McWilliams did not get all the mental health assistance that he requested.
Rather, he asked for additional help at the judicial sentencing hearing, but was rebuffed.
Pp. 11-13.
(b) This Court does not have to decide whether Ake requires a State to provide an indigent defendant with a qualified mental health expert retained specifically for the defense team.
That is because Alabama did not meet even Ake's most basic requirements in this case.
Ake requires more than just an examination.
It requires that the State provide the defense with "access to a competent psychiatrist who will conduct an appropriate [1] examination and assist in [2] evaluation, [3] preparation, and [4] presentation of the defense."
470 U. S., at 83.
Even assuming that Alabama met the examination requirement, it did not meet any of the other three.
No expert helped the defense evaluate the Goff report or McWilliams' extensive medical records and translate these data into a legal strategy.
No expert helped the defense prepare and present arguments that might, e.g., have explained that McWilliams' purported malingering was not necessarily inconsistent with mental illness.
No expert helped the defense prepare direct or cross-examination of any witnesses, or testified at the judicial sentencing hearing.
Since Alabama's provision of mental health assistance fell so dramatically short of Ake's requirements, the Alabama courts' decision affirming McWilliams' sentence was "contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law."
28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1).
Pp. 13-16.
2.
The Eleventh Circuit should determine on remand whether the Alabama courts' error had the "substantial and injurious effect or influence" required to warrant a grant of habeas relief, Davis v. Ayala, 576 U. S. ___, ___, specifically considering whether access to the type of meaningful assistance in evaluating, preparing, and presenting the defense that Ake requires could have made a difference.
P. 16.
634 Fed.
Appx.
698, reversed and remanded.
Breyer, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Kennedy, Ginsburg, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.
Alito, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Roberts, C. J., and Thomas and Gorsuch, JJ., joined.
Opinion of the Court
582 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 16-5294
JAMES E. McWILLIAMS, PETITIONER v. JEFFERSON S. DUNN, COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS, et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
[June 19, 2017]
Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.
Thirty-one years ago, petitioner James Edmond McWilliams, Jr., was convicted of capital murder by an Alabama jury and sentenced to death.
McWilliams challenged his sentence on appeal, arguing that the State had failed to provide him with the expert mental health assistance the Constitution requires, but the Alabama courts refused to grant relief.
We now consider, in this habeas corpus case, whether the Alabama courts' refusal was "contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law."
28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1).
We hold that it was.
Our decision in Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U. S. 68 (1985), clearly established that, when certain threshold criteria are met, the State must provide an indigent defendant with access to a mental health expert who is sufficiently available to the defense and independent from the prosecution to effectively "assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
Id., at 83.
Petitioner in this case did not receive that assistance.
I
McWilliams and the State of Alabama agree that Ake (which this Court decided in February 1985) sets forth the applicable constitutional standards.
Before turning to the circumstances of McWilliams' case, we describe what the Court held in Ake.
We put in italics language that we find particularly pertinent here.
The Court began by stating that the "issue in this case is whether the Constitution requires that an indigent defendant have access to the psychiatric examination and assistance necessary to prepare an effective defense based on his mental condition, when his sanity at the time of the offense is seriously in question."
Id., at 70 (emphasis added).
The Court said it would consider that issue within the framework of earlier cases granting "an indigent defendant . . . a fair opportunity to present his defense" and "to participate meaningfully in a judicial proceeding in which his liberty is at stake."
Id., at 76.
"Meaningful access to justice," the Court added, "has been the consistent theme of these cases."
Id., at 77.
The Court then wrote that "when the State has made the defendant's mental condition relevant to his criminal culpability and to the punishment he might suffer, the assistance of a psychiatrist may well be crucial to the defendant's ability to marshal his defense."
Id., at 80.
A psychiatrist may, among other things, "gather facts," "analyze the information gathered and from it draw plausible conclusions," and "know the probative questions to ask of the opposing party's psychiatrists and how to interpret their answers."
Ibid.
These and related considerations
"lea[d] inexorably to the conclusion that, without the assistance of a psychiatrist to conduct a professional examination on issues relevant to the defense, to help determine whether the insanity defense is viable, to present testimony, and to assist in preparing the cross-examination of a State's psychiatric witnesses, the risk of an inaccurate resolution of sanity issues is extremely high.
With such assistance, the defendant is fairly able to present at least enough information to the jury, in a meaningful manner, as to permit it to make a sensible determination."
Id., at 82 (emphasis added).
The Court concluded: "We therefore hold that when a defendant demonstrates to the trial judge that his sanity at the time of the offense is to be a significant factor at trial, the State must, at a minimum, assure the defendant access to a competent psychiatrist who will conduct an appropriate examination and assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense. . . .
Our concern is that the indigent defendant have access to a competent psychiatrist for the[se] purpose[s]."
Id., at 83 (emphasis added).
Ake thus clearly establishes that when its threshold criteria are met, a State must provide a mental health professional capable of performing a certain role: "conduct[ing] an appropriate examination and assist[ing] in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
Ibid.
Unless a defendant is "assure[d]" the assistance of someone who can effectively perform these functions, he has not received the "minimum" to which Ake entitles him.
Ibid.
II
A
One month after this Court decided Ake, the State of Alabama charged McWilliams with rape and murder.
The trial court found McWilliams indigent and provided him with counsel.
It also granted counsel's pretrial motion for a psychiatric evaluation of McWilliams' sanity, including aspects of his mental condition relevant to "mitigating circumstances to be considered in a capital case in the sentencing stage."
T. 1526.
("T." refers to the certified trial record; "P. C. T." refers to the certified court reporter's state postconviction proceedings transcript.)
The court ordered the State to convene a "Lunacy Commission," which would examine McWilliams and file a report with the court.
See id., at 1528-1529.
Subsequently a three-member Lunacy Commission examined McWilliams at a state hospital, the Taylor Hardin Secure Medical Facility.
The three members, all psychiatrists, concluded that McWilliams was competent to stand trial and that he had not been suffering from mental illness at the time of the alleged offense.
Id., at 1544-1546.
One of them, Dr. Kamal Nagi, wrote that "Mr. McWilliams is grossly exaggerating his psychological symptoms to mimic mental illness."
Id., at 1546.
Dr. Nagi noted that McWilliams' performance on one of the tests "suggested that [McWilliams] had exaggerated his endorsement of symptoms of illness and the profile was considered a 'fake bad.' "
Ibid.
McWilliams' trial took place in late August 1986.
On August 26 the jury convicted him of capital murder.
The prosecution sought the death penalty, which under then-applicable Alabama law required both a jury recommendation (with at least 10 affirmative votes) and a later determination by the judge.
See Ala.
Code §13A-5-46(f) (1986).
The jury-related portion of the sentencing proceeding took place the next day.
The prosecution reintroduced evidence from the guilt phase and called a police officer to testify that McWilliams had a prior conviction.
T. 1297, 1299-1303.
The defense called McWilliams and his mother.
Both testified that McWilliams, when a child, had suffered multiple serious head injuries.
Id., at 1303-1318, 1320-1335.
McWilliams also described his history of psychiatric and psychological evaluations, reading from the prearrest report of one psychologist, who concluded that McWilliams had a "blatantly psychotic thought disorder" and needed inpatient treatment.
Id., at 1329-1332.
When the prosecutor, cross-examining McWilliams, asked about the neurological effects of his head injuries, McWilliams replied, "I am not a psychiatrist."
Id., at 1328.
Similarly, when the prosecutor asked McWilliams' mother whether her son was "crazy," she answered, "I am no expert: I don't know whether my son is crazy or not.
All I know, that my son do need help."
Id., at 1317.
The prosecution then called two of the mental health professionals who had signed the Lunacy Commission's report, Dr. Kamal Nagi and Dr. Norman Poythress.
Dr. Nagi testified that he had found no evidence of psychosis, but did not appear to be aware of McWilliams' history of head trauma.
See id., at 1351-1352.
Dr. Poythress testified that one of the tests that McWilliams took was "clinically invalid" because the test's "validity scales" indicated that McWilliams had exaggerated or faked his symptoms.
Id., at 1361-1363.
Although McWilliams' counsel had subpoenaed further mental health records from Holman State Prison, where McWilliams was being held, the jury did not have the opportunity to consider them, for, though subpoenaed on August 13, the records had not arrived by August 27, the day of the jury hearing.
After the hearing, the jury recommended the death penalty by a vote of 10 to 2, the minimum required by Alabama law.
The court scheduled its judicial sentencing hearing for October 9, about six weeks later.
B
Five weeks before that hearing, the trial court ordered the Alabama Department of Corrections to respond to McWilliams's subpoena for mental health records.
Id., at 1619.
The court also granted McWilliams' motion for neurological and neuropsychological exams.
Id., at 1615-1617.
That motion (apparently filed at the suggestion of a University of Alabama psychologist who had "volunteer[ed]" to help counsel "in her spare time," P. C. T. 251-252) asked the court to "issue an order requiring the State of Alabama to do complete neurological and neuropsychological testing on the Defendant in order to have the test results available for his sentencing hearing."
T. 1615.
Consequently, Dr. John Goff, a neuropsychologist employed by the State's Department of Mental Health, examined McWilliams.
On October 7, two days before the judicial sentencing hearing, Dr. Goff filed his report.
The report concluded that McWilliams presented "some diagnostic dilemmas."
Id., at 1635.
On the one hand, he was "obviously attempting to appear emotionally disturbed" and "exaggerating his neuropsychological problems."
Ibid.
But on the other hand, it was "quite apparent that he ha[d] some genuine neuropsychological problems."
Ibid.
Tests revealed "cortical dysfunction attributable to right cerebral hemisphere dysfunction," shown by "left hand weakness, poor motor coordination of the left hand, sensory deficits including suppressions of the left hand and very poor visual search skills."
Id., at 1636.
These deficiencies were "suggestive of a right hemisphere lesion" and "compatible with the injuries [McWilliams] sa[id] he sustained as a child."
Id., at 1635.
The report added that McWilliams' "obvious neuropsychological deficit" could be related to his "low frustration tolerance and impulsivity," and suggested a diagnosis of "organic personality syndrome."
Ibid.
The day before the sentencing hearing defense counsel also received updated records from Taylor Hardin hospital, and on the morning of the hearing he received the records (subpoenaed in mid-August) from Holman Prison.
The prison records indicated that McWilliams was taking an assortment of psychotropic medications including Desyrel, Librium, and an antipsychotic, Mellaril.
See App.
190a-193a.
C
The judicial sentencing hearing began on the morning of October 9.
Defense counsel told the trial court that the eleventh-hour arrival of the Goff report and the mental health records left him "unable to present any evidence today."
Id., at 194a.
He said he needed more time to go over the new information.
Furthermore, since he was "not a psychologist or a psychiatrist," he needed "to have someone else review these findings" and offer "a second opinion as to the severity of the organic problems discovered."
Id., at 192a-196a.
The trial judge responded, "All right.
Well, let's proceed."
Id., at 197a.
The prosecution then presented its case.
Once it had finished, defense counsel moved for a continuance in order "to allow us to go through the material that has been provided to us in the last 2 days."
Id., at 204a.
The judge offered to give defense counsel until 2 p.m. that afternoon.
He also stated that "[a]t that time, The Court will entertain any motion that you may have with some other person to review" the new material.
Id., at 205a.
Defense counsel protested that "there is no way that I can go through this material," but the judge immediately added, "Well, I will give you the opportunity. . . .
If you do not want to try, then you may not."
Id., at 206a.
The court then adjourned until 2 p.m.
During the recess, defense counsel moved to withdraw.
He said that "the abritrary [sic] position taken by this Court regarding the Defendant's right to present mitigating circumstances is unconscionable resulting in this proceeding being a mockery."
T. 1644.
He added that "further participation would be tantamount to exceptance [sic] of the Court's ruling."
Ibid.
The trial court denied the motion to withdraw.
When the proceedings resumed, defense counsel renewed his motion for a continuance, explaining,
"It is the position of the Defense that we have received these records at such a late date, such a late time that it has put us in a position as laymen, with regard to psychological matters, that we cannot adequately make a determination as what to present to The Court with regards to the particular deficiencies that the Defendant has.
We believe that he has the type of diagnosed illness that we pointed out earlier for The Court and have mentioned for The Court.
But we cannot determine ourselves from the records that we have received and the lack of receiving the test and the lack of our own expertise, whether or not such a condition exists; whether the reports and tests that have been run by Taylor Hardin, and the Lunacy Commission, and at Holman are tests that should be challenged in some type of way or the results should be challenged, we really need an opportunity to have the right type of experts in this field, take a look at all of those records and tell us what is happening with him.
And that is why we renew the Motion for a Continuance."
App.
207a.
The trial court denied the motion.
The prosecutor then offered his closing statement, in which he argued that there were "no mitigating circumstances."
Id., at 209a.
Defense counsel replied that he "would be pleased to respond to [the prosecutor's] remarks that there are no mitigating circumstances in this case if I were able to have time to produce . . . any mitigating circumstances."
Id., at 210a.
But, he said, since neither he nor his co-counsel were "doctors," neither was "really capable of going through those records on our own."
Ibid.
The court had thus "foreclosed by structuring this hearing as it has, the Defendant from presenting any evidence of mitigation in psychological--psychiatric terms."
Id., at 211a.
The trial judge then said that he had reviewed the records himself and found evidence that McWilliams was faking and manipulative.
Ibid.
Defense counsel attempted to contest that point, which led to the following exchange:
"MR. SOGOL: I told Your Honor that my looking at those records was not of any value to me; that I needed to have somebody look at those records who understood them, who could interpret them for me.
Did I not tell Your Honor that?
THE COURT: As I said, on the record earlier, Mr. Sogol, and I don't want to argue or belabor this, but I would have given you the opportunity to make a motion to present someone to evaluate that.
MR. SOGOL: Your Honor gave me no time in which to do that.
Your Honor told me to be here at 2 o'clock this afternoon.
Would Your Honor have wanted me to file a Motion for Extraordinary Expenses to get someone?
THE COURT: I want you to approach with your client, please."
Id., at 211a-212a.
The court then sentenced McWilliams to death.
The court later issued a written sentencing order.
It found three aggravating circumstances and no mitigating circumstances.
It found that McWilliams "was not and is not psychotic," and that "the preponderance of the evidence from these tests and reports show [McWilliams] to be feigning, faking, and manipulative."
Id., at 188a.
The court wrote that even if McWilliams' mental health issues "did rise to the level of a mitigating circumstance, the aggravating circumstances would far outweigh this as a mitigating circumstance."
Ibid.
D
McWilliams appealed, arguing that the trial court had denied him the right to meaningful expert assistance guaranteed by Ake.
The Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals rejected his argument.
It wrote that Ake's requirements "are met when the State provides the [defendant] with a competent psychiatrist."
McWilliams v. State, 640 So.
2d 982, 991 (1991).
And Alabama, by "allowing Dr. Goff to examine" McWilliams, had satisfied those requirements.
Ibid.
The court added that "[t]here is no indication in the record that [McWilliams] could not have called Dr. Goff as a witness to explain his findings or that he even tried to contact the psychiatrist to discuss his findings," ibid.; that "the trial court indicated that it would have considered a motion to present an expert to evaluate this report" had one been made, ibid.; and that there was "no prejudice by the trial court's denial of [McWilliams'] motion for continuance," id., at 993.
The appeals court therefore affirmed McWilliams' conviction and sentence.
The Alabama Supreme Court, in turn, affirmed the appeals court (without addressing the Ake issue).
Ex parte McWilliams, 640 So.
2d 1015 (1993).
After McWilliams failed to obtain postconviction relief from the state courts, he sought a federal writ of habeas corpus.
See 28 U. S. C. §2254.
E
In federal habeas court McWilliams argued before a Magistrate Judge that he had not received the expert assistance that Ake required.
The Magistrate Judge recommended against issuing the writ.
He wrote that McWilliams had "received the assistance required by Ake" because Dr. Goff "completed the testing" that McWilliams requested.
App.
88a.
Hence, the decision of the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals was not contrary to, or an unreasonable application of, clearly established federal law.
See 28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1).
The District Court adopted the Magistrate Judge's report and recommendation and denied relief.
A divided panel of the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
See McWilliams v. Commissioner, Ala.
Dept. of Corrections, 634 Fed.
Appx.
698 (2015) ( per curiam); id., at 711 (Jordan, J., concurring); id., at 712 (Wilson, J., dissenting).
McWilliams filed a petition for certiorari.
We granted the petition.
III
A
The question before us is whether the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals' determination that McWilliams got all the assistance to which Ake entitled him was "contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law."
28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1).
Before turning to the heart of that question, we resolve three preliminary issues.
First, no one denies that the conditions that trigger application of Ake are present.
McWilliams is and was an "indigent defendant," 470 U. S., at 70.
See supra, at 3.
His "mental condition" was "relevant to . . . the punishment he might suffer," 470 U. S., at 80.
See supra, at 4-5.
And, that "mental condition," i.e., his "sanity at the time of the offense," was "seriously in question," 470 U. S., at 70.
See supra, at 4-5.
Consequently, the Constitution, as interpreted in Ake, required the State to provide McWilliams with "access to a competent psychiatrist who will conduct an appropriate examination and assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
470 U. S., at 83.
Second, we reject Alabama's claim that the State was exempted from its obligations because McWilliams already had the assistance of Dr. Rosenszweig, the psychologist at the University of Alabama who "volunteer[ed]" to help defense counsel "in her spare time" and suggested the defense ask for further testing, P. C. T. 251-252.
Even if the episodic assistance of an outside volunteer could relieve the State of its constitutional duty to ensure an indigent defendant access to meaningful expert assistance, no lower court has held or suggested that Dr. Rosenszweig was available to help, or might have helped, McWilliams at the judicial sentencing proceeding, the proceeding here at issue.
Alabama does not refer to any specific record facts that indicate that she was available to the defense at this time.
Third, Alabama argues that Ake's requirements are irrelevant because McWilliams "never asked for more expert assistance" than he got, "even though the trial court gave him the opportunity to do so."
Brief for Respondent 50-51.
The record does not support this contention.
When defense counsel requested a continuance at the sentencing hearing, he repeatedly told the court that he needed "to have someone else review" the Goff report and medical records.
App.
193a.
See, e.g., id., at 196a ("[I]t is just incumbent upon me to have a second opinion as to the severity of the organic problems discovered"); id., at 207a ("[W]e really need an opportunity to have the right type of experts in this field, take a look at all of these records and tell us what is happening with him"); id., at 211a ("I told Your Honor that my looking at these records was not of any value to me; that I needed to have somebody look at those records who understood them, who could interpret them for me").
Counsel also explicitly asked the trial court what else he was supposed to ask for to obtain an expert: "Would Your Honor have wanted me to file a Motion for Extraordinary Expenses to get someone?"
Id., at 212a.
We have reproduced a lengthier account of the exchanges, supra, at 7-9.
They make clear that counsel wanted additional expert assistance to review the report and records--that was the point of asking for a continuance.
In response, the court told counsel to approach the bench and sentenced McWilliams to death.
Thus the record, in our view, indicates that McWilliams did request additional help from mental health experts.
B
We turn to the main question before us: whether the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals' determination that McWilliams got all the assistance that Ake requires was "contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law."
28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1).
McWilliams would have us answer "yes" on the ground that Ake clearly established that a State must provide an indigent defendant with a qualified mental health expert retained specifically for the defense team, not a neutral expert available to both parties.
He points to language in Ake that seems to foresee that consequence.
See, e.g., 470 U. S., at 81 ("By organizing a defendant's mental history, examination results and behavior, and other information, interpreting it in light of their expertise, and then laying out their investigative and analytic process to the jury, the psychiatrists for each party enable the jury to make its most accurate determination of the truth on the issue before them" (emphasis added)).
We need not, and do not, decide, however, whether this particular McWilliams claim is correct.
As discussed above, Ake clearly established that a defendant must receive the assistance of a mental health expert who is sufficiently available to the defense and independent from the prosecution to effectively "assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
Id., at 83.
As a practical matter, the simplest way for a State to meet this standard may be to provide a qualified expert retained specifically for the defense team.
This appears to be the approach that the overwhelming majority of jurisdictions have adopted.
See Brief for National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. as Amici Curiae 8-35 (describing practice in capital-active jurisdictions); Tr.
of Oral Arg.
40 (respondent conceding that "this issue really has been mooted over the last 30-some-odd years because of statutory changes").
It is not necessary, however, for us to decide whether the Constitution requires States to satisfy Ake's demands in this way.
That is because Alabama here did not meet even Ake's most basic requirements.
The dissent calls our unwillingness to resolve the broader question whether Ake clearly established a right to an expert independent from the prosecution a "most unseemly maneuver."
Post, at 1-2 (opinion of Alito, J.).
We do not agree.
We recognize that we granted petitioner's first question presented--which addressed whether Ake clearly established a right to an independent expert--and not his second, which raised more case-specific concerns.
See Pet.
for Cert.
i.
Yet that does not bind us to issue a sweeping ruling when a narrow one will do.
As we explain below, our determination that Ake clearly established that a defendant must receive the assistance of a mental health expert who is sufficiently available to the defense and independent from the prosecution to effectively "assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense," 470 U. S., at 83, is sufficient to resolve the case.
We therefore need not decide whether Ake clearly established more.
(Nor do we agree with the dissent that our approach is "acutely unfair to Alabama" by not "giv[ing] the State a fair chance to respond."
Post, at 12.
In fact, the State devoted an entire section of its merits brief to explaining why it thought that "[n]o matter how the Court resolves the [independent expert] question, the court of appeals correctly denied the habeas petition."
Brief for Respondent 50.
See also id., at 14, 52 (referring to the lower courts' case-specific determinations that McWilliams got all the assistance Ake requires).)
The Alabama appeals court held that "the requirements of Ake v. Oklahoma . . . are met when the State provides the [defendant] with a competent psychiatrist.
The State met this requirement in allowing Dr. Goff to examine [McWilliams]."
McWilliams, 640 So.
2d, at 991.
This was plainly incorrect.
Ake does not require just an examination.
Rather, it requires the State to provide the defense with "access to a competent psychiatrist who will conduct an appropriate [1] examination and assist in [2] evaluation, [3] preparation, and [4] presentation of the defense."
Ake, supra, at 83 (emphasis added).
We are willing to assume that Alabama met the examination portion of this requirement by providing for Dr. Goff's examination of McWilliams.
See supra, at 6.
But what about the other three parts?
Neither Dr. Goff nor any other expert helped the defense evaluate Goff's report or McWilliams' extensive medical records and translate these data into a legal strategy.
Neither Dr. Goff nor any other expert helped the defense prepare and present arguments that might, for example, have explained that McWilliams' purported malingering was not necessarily inconsistent with mental illness (as an expert later testified in postconviction proceedings, see P. C. T. 936-943).
Neither Dr. Goff nor any other expert helped the defense prepare direct or cross-examination of any witnesses, or testified at the judicial sentencing hearing himself.
The dissent emphasizes that Dr. Goff was never ordered to do any of these things by the trial court.
See post, at 13, n. 5.
But that is precisely the point.
The relevant court order did not ask Dr. Goff or anyone else to provide the defense with help in evaluating, preparing, and presenting its case.
It only required "the Department of Corrections" to "complete neurological and neuropsychological testing on the Defendant . . . and send all test materials, results and evaluations to the Clerk of the Court."
T. 1612.
Nor did the short time frame allow for more expert assistance.
(Indeed, given that timeframe, we do not see how Dr. Goff or any other expert could have satisfied the latter three portions of Ake's requirements even had he been instructed to do so.)
Then, when McWilliams asked for the additional assistance to which he was constitutionally entitled at the sentencing hearing, the judge rebuffed his requests.
See supra, at 7-9.
Since Alabama's provision of mental health assistance fell so dramatically short of what Ake requires, we must conclude that the Alabama court decision affirming McWilliams's conviction and sentence was "contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law."
28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1).
IV
The Eleventh Circuit held in the alternative that, even if the Alabama courts clearly erred in their application of federal law, their "error" nonetheless did not have the "substantial and injurious effect or influence" required to warrant a grant of habeas relief, Davis v. Ayala, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted).
See 634 Fed.
Appx., at 707.
In reaching this conclusion, however, the Eleventh Circuit only considered whether "[a] few additional days to review Dr. Goff's findings" would have made a difference.
Ibid.
It did not specifically consider whether access to the type of meaningful assistance in evaluating, preparing, and presenting the defense that Ake requires would have mattered.
There is reason to think that it could have.
For example, the trial judge relied heavily on his belief that McWilliams was malingering.
See App.
188a, 211a.
If McWilliams had the assistance of an expert to explain that "[m]alingering is not inconsistent with serious mental illness," Brief for American Psychiatric Association et al. as Amici Curiae 20, he might have been able to alter the judge's perception of the case.
Since "we are a court of review, not of first view," Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U. S. 709, 718, n. 7 (2005), we do not now resolve this question.
Rather we leave it to the lower courts to decide in the first instance.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
Alito, J., dissenting
582 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 16-5294
JAMES E. McWILLIAMS, PETITIONER v. JEFFERSON S. DUNN, COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS, et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
[June 19, 2017]
Justice Alito, with whom The Chief Justice, Justice Thomas, and Justice Gorsuch join, dissenting.
We granted review in this case to decide a straightforward legal question on which the lower courts are divided: whether our decision in Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U. S. 68 (1985), clearly established that an indigent defendant whose mental health will be a significant factor at trial is entitled to the assistance of a psychiatric expert who is a member of the defense team instead of a neutral expert who is available to assist both the prosecution and the defense.1
The answer to that question is plain: Ake did not clearly establish that a defendant is entitled to an expert who is a member of the defense team.
Indeed, "Ake appears to have been written so as to be deliberately ambiguous on this point, thus leaving the issue open for future consideration."
W. LaFave, Criminal Law §8.2(d), p. 449 (5th ed.
2010) (LaFave).
Accordingly, the proper disposition of this case is to affirm the judgment below.
The Court avoids that outcome by means of a most unseemly maneuver.
The Court declines to decide the question on which we granted review and thus leaves in place conflicting lower court decisions regarding the meaning of a 32-year-old precedent.2 That is bad enough.
But to make matters worse, the Court achieves this unfortunate result by deciding a separate question on which we expressly declined review.
And the Court decides that fact-bound question without giving Alabama a fair opportunity to brief the issue.
I
Under the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA), federal habeas relief cannot be awarded on a claim that a state court decided on the merits unless the state court's decision "was contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States."
28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1).
That standard, by design, is "difficult to meet."
White v. Woodall, 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 3) (internal quotation marks omitted).
It requires habeas petitioners to "show that the state court's ruling on the claim . . . was so lacking in justification that there was an error well understood and comprehended in existing law beyond any possibility for fairminded disagreement."
Harrington v. Richter, 562 U. S. 86, 103 (2011).
Put another way, "[w]hen reviewing state criminal convictions on collateral review, federal judges are required to afford state courts due respect by overturning their decisions only when there could be no reasonable dispute that they were wrong."
Woods v. Donald, 575 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) ( per curiam) (slip op., at 4-5).
In Ake, we held that a defendant must be provided "access to a competent psychiatrist" in two circumstances: first, "when [the] defendant demonstrates to the trial judge that his sanity at the time of the offense is to be a significant factor at trial," and, second, at the sentencing phase of a capital trial, "when the State presents psychiatric evidence of the defendant's future dangerousness."
470 U. S., at 83.
The question that we agreed to review concerns the type of expert that must be provided.
Did Ake clearly establish that a defendant in the two situations just noted must be provided with the services of an expert who functions solely as a dedicated member of the defense team as opposed to a neutral expert who examines the defendant, reports his or her conclusions to the court and the parties, and is available to assist and testify for both sides?
Did Ake speak with such clarity that it ruled out "any possibility for fairminded disagreement"?
Harrington, supra, at 103.
The answer is "no."
Ake provides no clear guidance one way or the other.
A
It is certainly true that there is language in Ake that points toward the position that a defense-team psychiatrist should be provided.
Explaining the need for the appointment of a psychiatric expert, Ake noted that a psychiatrist can "assist in preparing the cross-examination of a State's psychiatric witnesses" and would "know the probative questions to ask of the opposing party's psychiatrists and how to interpret their answers."
470 U. S., at 82, 80.
And when Ake discussed expert assistance during capital sentencing, the Court said that it is important for a defendant to "offer a well-informed expert's opposing view" in the form of "responsive psychiatric testimony."
Id., at 84.
Ake also explained that factfinding is improved when evidence is offered by "psychiatrists for each party."
Id., at 81.
While it is possible for a neutral expert to provide these services, in our adversary system they are customarily performed by an expert working exclusively for one of the parties.
Other language in Ake, however, points at least as strongly in the opposite direction.
Ake was clear that an indigent defendant does not have a constitutional right to "choose a psychiatrist of his personal liking or . . . receive funds to hire his own."
Id., at 83.
Instead, the Court held only that a defendant is entitled to have "access" to "one competent psychiatrist" chosen by the trial judge.
Id., at 83, 79.
These limitations are at odds with the defense-expert model, which McWilliams characterizes as "the norm in our adversarial system."
Reply Brief 3.
As McWilliams explains, "other litigants of means" screen experts to find one whose tentative views are favorable, and they often hire both consulting and testifying experts.
Id., at 2-3.
But the Ake Court was clear that it was not holding "that a State must purchase for the indigent defendant all the assistance that his wealthier counterpart might buy."
470 U. S., at 77.
On the contrary, Ake expressly stated that a State need only provide for a single psychiatric expert to be selected by the trial judge.
Thus, Ake does not give the defense the right to interview potential experts, to seek out an expert who offers a favorable preliminary diagnosis, or to hire more than one expert.
And if the court-appointed expert reaches a conclusion unfavorable to the defendant on the issue of sanity or future dangerousness, Ake requires the defense team to live with the expert's unfavorable conclusions.
As McWilliams concedes, when the only expert available to indigent defendants is one selected by the trial court, these defendants "face a risk that their expert will ultimately be unwilling or unable to offer testimony that will advance their cause."
Reply Brief 3.
Ake also acknowledged that one of our prior cases, United States ex rel.
Smith v. Baldi, 344 U. S. 561 (1953), "support[ed] the proposition" that due process is satisfied if a defendant merely has access to a psychiatrist "not beholden to the prosecution."
470 U. S., at 85.
While Ake also declared that Baldi did not limit the Court "in considering whether fundamental fairness today requires a different result," 470 U. S., at 85, Ake did not explicitly overrule Baldi, and ultimately its treatment of that case was "most ambiguous," LaFave §8.2, at 450, n. 124.
It is also significant that the Ake Court had no need to decide whether due process requires the appointment of a defense-team expert as opposed to a neutral expert because Ake was denied the assistance of any psychiatrist--neutral or otherwise--for purposes of assessing his sanity at the time of the offense or his mental state as it related to capital sentencing.
470 U. S., at 71-73 (state experts who examined Ake and testified he was dangerous evaluated him only in connection with his competency to stand trial).
As Ake's counsel explained at argument, the Court could rule in his client's favor without accepting his client's "primary submission" that due process requires the appointment of a defense-team expert.
Tr.
of Oral Arg.
in No. 83-5424 p. 21 (arguing that Ake's rights were violated even under Baldi).
In short, Ake is ambiguous, perhaps "deliberately" so.
LaFave §8.2(d), at 449; see ibid.
("[C]omments supporting a move in either direction appear throughout the majority opinion in the case").
If the Justices who joined Justice Marshall's opinion for the Court had agreed that a defense-team expert must be appointed, it would have been a simple matter for the Court to say so expressly.
Justice Marshall demonstrated this a few years later when he dissented from the denial of certiorari in a case that presented the very issue that the Court now dodges.
Granviel v. Texas, 495 U. S. 963 (1990).
There, Justice Marshall stated unambiguously that "Ake mandates the provision of a psychiatrist who will be part of the defense team and serve the defendant's interests in the context of our adversarial system."
Ibid.
If all the Justices who joined the opinion of the Court in Ake had shared this view, there is no obvious reason for the absence of the sort of clear statement that Justice Marshall would later provide when he wrote only for himself.
The opinion in Ake has all the hallmarks of a compromise.
The Court's actions in the aftermath of Ake lend support to this conclusion.
The Court repeatedly denied certiorari in cases that would have permitted it to resolve this question or others left open by Ake.
See, e.g., Norris v. Starr, 513 U. S. 995 (1994); Vickers v. Arizona, 497 U. S. 1033 (1990); Brown v. Dodd, 484 U. S. 874 (1987); Johnson v. Oklahoma, 484 U. S. 878 (1987); Granviel, supra, at 963.
And in many of these cases (Vickers, Dodd, Johnson, and Granviel), Justice Marshall dissented.
The most reasonable conclusion to draw from the Court's silence is that the exact type of expert required by Ake has remained "an open question in our jurisprudence."
Carey v. Musladin, 549 U. S. 70, 76 (2006).
B
When the lower courts have "diverged widely" in assessing whether our precedents dictate a legal rule, that is a sign that the rule is not clearly established, ibid., and that is the situation here.
At the time the Alabama court addressed McWilliams's Ake claim on the merits, some courts had held that Ake requires the appointment of a defense-team expert.
See, e.g., Smith v. McCormick, 914 F. 2d 1153, 1156-1160 (CA9 1990); United States v. Sloan, 776 F. 2d 926, 929 (CA10 1985).
But others disagreed.
The Fifth Circuit had held that a defense-team expert is not required.
Granviel v. Lynaugh, 881 F. 2d 185, 191-192 (1989), cert.
denied, 495 U. S. 963 (1990).
And the Oklahoma courts in Ake itself also interpreted our holding this way.
Ake v. State, 778 P. 2d 460, 465 (Okla.
Crim.
App.
1989) ("[D]ue process does not entitle [Ake] to a state-funded psychiatric expert to support his claim; rather, due process requires that he have access to a competent and impartial psychiatrist").
So had at least seven other state high courts.
Willie v. State, 585 So.
2d 660, 671 (Miss. 1991); State v. Hix, 38 Ohio St. 3d 129, 131-132, 527 N. E. 2d 784, 787 (1988); Dunn v. State, 291 Ark. 131, 132-134, 722 S. W. 2d 595, 595-596 (1987); State v. Indvik, 382 N. W. 2d 623, 625-626 (N. D. 1986); Palmer v. State, 486 N. E. 2d 477, 481-482 (Ind. 1985); State v. Smith, 217 Mont. 453, 457-460, 705 P. 2d 1110, 1113-1114 (1985); State v. Hoopii, 68 Haw.
246, 248-251, 710 P. 2d 1193, 1195-1196 (1985).
Other courts struggled to reach agreement on the question.
Two Eleventh Circuit panels held that a neutral expert suffices, see Magwood v. Smith, 791 F. 2d 1438, 1443 (1986) (Ake satisfied where neutral, court-appointed experts examined the defendant and testified); Clisby v. Jones, 907 F. 2d 1047, 1050 (1990) (per curiam) ("The state provided a duly qualified psychiatrist not beholden to the prosecution and, therefore, met its obligation under Ake"), reh'g en banc, 960 F. 2d 925, 928-934 (1992) (rejecting Ake claim on other grounds).
But another Eleventh Circuit panel disagreed.
Cowley v. Stricklin, 929 F. 2d 640, 644 (1991) (holding that due process requires more than a neutral expert).
A Sixth Circuit panel held that Ake does not require appointment of a defense-team expert.
Kordenbrock v. Scroggy, 889 F. 2d 69, 75 (1989).
And when the Sixth Circuit reviewed that decision en banc, its holding was fractured, but 7 of the 13 judges expressed the view that Ake requires only a neutral, court-appointed expert.3 919 F. 2d 1091, 1110, 1117-1120, 1131-1132 (1990).
Ake's ambiguity has been noted time and again by commentators.
See, e.g., LaFave §8.2(d), at 449 (Ake appears to be "deliberately ambiguous"); Mosteller, The Sixth Amendment Right to Fairness: The Touchstone of Effectiveness and Pragmatism, 45 Tex.
Tech.
L. Rev. 1, 16 (2012) (Ake held that "the defense had the right of access to an expert, but the Court did not conclude that access had to be a defense expert"); Greeley, The Plight of Indigent Defendants in a Computer-Based Age: Maintaining the Adversarial System by Granting Defendants Access to Computer Experts, 16 Va.
J. L. & Tech.
400, 426 (2011) ("[T]he Supreme Court should affirmatively state whether a defendant is entitled to a neutral expert working for the defense and the government, or an expert advocating for the defense"); Groendyke, Ake v. Oklahoma: Proposals for Making the Right a Reality, 10 N. Y. U. J. Legis.
& Pub.
Pol'y 367, 383 (2007) ("The intentions of the Ake Court regarding the role of the expert are not obvious from the opinion"); Giannelli, Ake v. Oklahoma: The Right to Expert Assistance in a Post-Daubert, Post-DNA World, 89 Cornell L. Rev. 1305, 1399 (2004) ("It is uncertain from Ake whether the appointment of a neutral expert (who reports to the court) is sufficient or whether a 'partisan' defense expert is required"); Bailey, Ake v. Oklahoma and an Indigent Defendant's 'Right' to an Expert Witness: A Promise Denied or Imagined?
10 Wm. & Mary Bill Rts.
J. 401, 403 (2002) ("[C]ourts have struggled with whether an indigent is entitled to his own independent advocate or a neutral expert provided by the state," and the Supreme Court "has . . . failed to confront this ambiguity"); Sullivan, Psychiatric Defenses in Arkansas Criminal Trials, 48 Ark.
L. Rev. 439, 492 (1995) ("The issue left unresolved in Ake" is whether the defendant has "merely the right to an evaluation by a neutral mental health expert"); Giannelli et al., The Constitutional Right to Defense Experts, 16 Pub.
Def.
Rptr.
3 (Summer 1993) ("Ake fails to specify clearly the role of the expert--whether the appointment of a neutral expert, who reports to the court, satisfies due process, or whether a partisan defense expert is required"); Note, The Constitutional Right to Psychiatric Assistance: Cause for Reexamination of Ake, 30 Am.
Crim.
L. Rev. 1329, 1356 (1993) (calling this the "preeminent ambiguity" in the opinion); Harris, Ake Revisited: Expert Psychiatric Witnesses Remain Beyond Reach for the Indigent, 68 N. C. L. Rev. 763, 768, n. 44 (1990) ("The Court gave mixed signals concerning the psychiatrist's role with regard to a criminal defendant, resulting in lower court disagreement on the proper interpretation of Ake on this point"); Comment, A Question of Competence: The Indigent Criminal Defendant's Right to Adequate and Competent Psychiatric Assistance After Ake v. Oklahoma, 14 Vt.
L. Rev. 121, 127 (1989) (Ake "left unanswered many questions," including "whether the defendant is entitled to 'neutral' or 'partisan' assistance"); Dubia, The Defense Right to Psychiatric Assistance in Light of Ake v. Oklahoma, 1987 Army Lawyer 15, 19-20 (Ake "did not define clearly the role of the state-supplied psychiatrist," and "[a] strong case can be made that Ake requires only access to an independent psychiatric examination"); Note, Due Process and Psychiatric Assistance: Ake v. Oklahoma, 21 Tulsa L. J. 121, 143 (1985) ("The Court is unclear as to the exact nature and scope of the substantive right it has created"); Sallet, Book Review, After Hinckley: The Insanity Defense Reexamined, 94 Yale L. J. 1545, 1551, n. 18 (1985) (predicting that "whether the Constitution requires one psychiatrist or rather one defense-oriented psy-chiatrist" would "likely be the next constitutional issue adjudicated").
In this case, the Alabama courts held that Ake is satisfied by the appointment of a neutral expert, and it is impossible to say that "there could be no reasonable dispute that they were wrong."
Donald, 575 U. S., at ___ (slip op., 5).
II
McWilliams's petition for certiorari asked us to decide two questions.
Pet.
for Cert.
i.
The first was the legal question discussed above; the second raised an issue that is tied to the specific facts of McWilliams's case: whether the neutral expert appointed in this case failed to provide the assistance that Ake requires because he "distributed his report to all parties just two days before sentencing and was unable to review voluminous medical and psychological records."
Pet.
for Cert.
i.
Our Rules and practice disfavor questions of this nature, see this Court's Rule 10, and we denied review.
Heeding our decision, the parties briefed the first question but scarcely mentioned anything related to the second.
The Court, however, feels no similar obligation to abide by the Rules.
The Court refuses to decide the legal question on which we granted review and instead decides the question on which review was denied.
The Court holds that "Alabama here did not meet even Ake's most basic requirements."
Ante, at 14.
In support of this conclusion, the Court states that neither Dr. Goff (the expert appointed by the trial judge) nor any other expert provided assistance in understanding and evaluating medical reports and records, preparing a legal strategy, presenting evidence, or preparing to cross-examine witnesses.
Ibid.
The Court does not question Dr. Goff's qualifications or his objectivity.
Instead, the crux of the Court's complaint is that Dr. Goff merely submitted his report and did not provide further assistance to the defense.
Ibid.
But as far as the record shows, Dr. Goff was never asked and never refused to provide assistance to McWilliams.
He did not provide the assistance that the Court finds essential because his report was not given to the parties until two days before sentencing, and arrangements were not made for him to provide the assistance during that brief interlude.
Thus, the question that the Court decides is precisely the question on which we denied review: namely, whether Dr. Goff's assistance was deficient because he "distributed his report to all parties just two days before sentencing and was unable to review voluminous medical and psychological records."
Pet.
for Cert.
i
Our Rules instruct litigants that we will consider only the questions on which review was granted and "subsidiary question fairly included therein."
This Court's Rule 14.1(a); Yee v. Escondido, 503 U. S. 519, 535 (1992) (The Court will consider an "unpresented question" only in "the most exceptional cases" (internal quotation marks omitted)); see also this Court's Rule 24.1(a) (parties may not change the substance of the question presented once granted).
And we have not hesitated to enforce these Rules when petitioners who "persuaded us to grant certiorari" on one question instead "chose to rely on a different argument in their merits briefing."
Visa, Inc. v. Osborn, 580 U. S. ___ (2016) (internal quotation marks omitted) (dismissing cases as improvidently granted on this ground).
These Rules exist for good reasons.
Among other things, they give the parties notice of the question to be decided and ensure that we receive adversarial briefing, see Yee, supra, at 536, which in turns helps the Court reach sound decisions.
But in this case, the Court feels free to disregard our Rules and long-established practice.
If McWilliams, after inducing us to grant certiorari on the first question presented, had decided to ignore that question and instead brief a fact-specific alternative theory, we would have dismissed the case as improvidently granted.
We do not tolerate this sort of bait-and-switch tactic from litigants, and we should not engage in it ourselves.
The Court's approach is acutely unfair to Alabama.
The State surely believed that it did not need to brief the second question presented in McWilliams's petition.
The State vigorously opposed review of that question, calling it "an invitation to conduct factbound error correction," Brief in Opposition 13, and we denied review.
It will come as a nasty surprise to Alabama that the Court has ruled against it on the very question we declined to review--and without giving the State a fair chance to respond.4
It is worth remembering that today's ruling requires the Court to conclude that the state court's treatment of McWilliams's Ake claim "was so lacking in justification that there was an error well understood and comprehended in existing law beyond any possibility for fairminded disagreement."
Harrington, 562 U. S., at 103.
This "standard is difficult to meet," id., at 102, and Alabama would surely have appreciated the opportunity to contest whether McWilliams has met it.
Denying Alabama that chance does not show "[a] proper respect for AEDPA's high bar for habeas relief," which counsels restraint in "disturbing the State's significant interest in repose for concluded litigation, denying society the right to punish some admitted offenders, and intruding on state sovereignty to a degree matched by few exercises of federal authority."
Virginia v. LeBlanc, ante, at 5 (per curiam) (alterations and internal quotation marks omitted).
It is debatable whether the Court has even answered question two correctly (and, of course, meaningful briefing by the parties would have allowed the Court to answer the question with more confidence).5 But the fundamental point is that the Court should not have addressed this question at all.
III
Having completed an arduous detour around the question that we agreed to decide, the majority encounters an inconvenient roadblock: The Court of Appeals has already determined that any error of the sort the majority identifies today was harmless.
So the majority relies on the thinnest of reasons to require the Eleventh Circuit to redo its analysis.
That conclusion is unwarranted, and nothing in the majority opinion prevents the Court of Appeals from reaching the same result on remand.
The majority claims that the Court of Appeals did not "specifically consider whether access to the type of meaningful assistance in evaluating, preparing, and presenting the defense that Ake requires would have mattered."
Ante, at 15.
But the Court of Appeals concluded that, even if Dr. Goff's performance did not satisfy Ake, the error did not have a substantial and injurious effect on the outcome of the sentencing proceeding.
McWilliams v. Commissioner, Ala.
Dept. of Corrections, 634 Fed.
Appx.
698, 706-707 (CA11 2015) (per curiam).
Thus, the Court of Appeals specifically addressed the very question that the majority instructs it to consider on remand.
If the majority disagrees with the Court of Appeals' decision on that question, it should explain its reasons, but the majority is unwilling to tackle that matter and instead recites that "we are a court of review, not first view."
Ante, at 16 (internal quotation marks omitted).
The Court's invocation of this oft-used formulation is utterly inapt because the Eleventh Circuit has already reviewed the question of harmless error.
Moreover, unlike the question that the majority does decide, the harmless-error issue was at least briefed in a meaningful way by the parties.
Brief for Petitioner 41-46; Brief for Respondents 52-56; Reply Brief 14-16.
Had the Court confronted the harmless-error issue, it would have found it difficult to reject the Court of Appeals' conclusion that any Ake error here was harmless.
In 1984, McWilliams "raped, robbed, and murdered Patricia Vallery Reynolds."
McWilliams v. State, 640 So.
2d 982, 986 (Ala.
Crim.
App.
1991) (internal quotation marks omitted).
Reynolds was a clerk at a convenience store in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
Ibid.
McWilliams robbed the store, brutally raped Reynolds in a back room, then left her on the floor to die after shooting her six times execution style with a .38 caliber pistol.
Ibid.
After McWilliams was apprehended, he bragged to other jail inmates about what he had done.
Id., at 987.
The jury needed less than an hour of deliberation to find him guilty, and it recommended the death penalty by a 10-to-2 vote the following day.
Id., at 986.
Agreeing with the jury's nonbinding recommendation, the trial court imposed the death penalty based on three aggravating circumstances.
McWilliams had prior violent felony convictions for first-degree robbery and first-degree rape.
App.
182a-183a.
He murdered Reynolds in the course of committing a robbery and rape.
Id., at 183a.
And his crime "was especially heinous, atrocious, or cruel": He executed the only potential eyewitness to his robbery, and his conduct during and after the crime showed an "obvious lack of regard or compassion for the life and human dignity of the victim."
Id., at 184a.
Balanced against these three aggravators was McWilliams's claim that he was psychotic and suffered from organic brain dysfunction--the mitigating evidence that Dr. Goff's report supposedly would have supported.
But the sentencing court concluded that this evidence "did not rise to the level of a mitigating circumstance," in part because of the extensive evidence that McWilliams was feigning symptoms.
Id., at 188a.
And in any event, the sentencing court found that "the aggravating circumstances would far outweigh this as a mitigating circumstance."
Ibid.
(emphasis added).
The majority hints that the sentencing court's weighing might have been different if McWilliams had been afforded more time to work with Dr. Goff to prepare a mitigation presentation and to introduce Dr. Goff's testimony at the sentencing hearing.
But there is little basis for this belief.
The defense would have faced potential rebuttal testimony from three doctors who evaluated McWilliams and firmly concluded that McWilliams's mental state did not reduce his responsibility for his actions.
Certified Trial Record 1545 (Dr. Yumul) (McWilliams "was responsible and free of mental illness at the time of the alleged offense"); id., at 1546 (Dr. Nagi) (McWilliams "was not suffering from a mental illness" at the time of the crime and "[t]here see[m] to be no mitigating circumstances involved in [his] case"); ibid.
(Dr. Bryant) (finding no "evidence of psychiatric symptoms of other illness that would provide a basis for mitigating factors at the time of the alleged crime").
One of these psychiatrists also concluded that McWilliams was "grossly exaggerating his psychological symptoms to mimic mental illness" and that he "obviously" did so "to evade criminal prosecution."
Ibid.
(Dr. Nagi).
Even Dr. Goff found it "quite obvious" that McWilliams's "symptoms of psychiatric disturbance [were] quite exaggerated and, perhaps, feigned."
Id., at 1635.
In light of all this, the defense would have faced an uphill battle in convincing the sentencing judge that, despite McWilliams's consistent malingering, his mental health was so impaired that it constituted a mitigating circumstance and that it outweighed the three aggravators the State proved.
If the sentencing judge had thought that there was a possibility that hearing from Dr. Goff would change his evaluation of aggravating and mitigating factors, he could have granted a continuance and called for Dr. Goff to appear.
But he did not do so.
The majority also ignores the fact that McWilliams has already had the chance to show that the outcome of the sentencing proceeding would have been different if he had been given more expert assistance.
In state postconviction proceedings, McWilliams argued that he was denied effective assistance of counsel because his lawyers did not obtain an expert who would have fully probed his mental state for purposes of mitigation.
McWilliams called an expert, Dr. Woods, who offered the opinion that McWilliams suffered from bipolar disorder at the time of the crime and testified that McWilliams's exaggeration of symptoms was not inconsistent with psychiatric problems.
But Dr. Woods also acknowledged that McWilliams "tr[ied] to malinger for purposes of making himself look worse than he is," agreed that this malingering could have been done for the purpose of avoiding the death penalty, and declined to say that McWilliams's disorder explains why he raped and murdered Reynolds.
Postconviction Tr.
1002-1005, 1022-1023.
Dr. Woods even endorsed Dr. Goff's conclusion that McWilliams "exaggerated certain aspects of his impairment."
Id., at 955 ("I think Dr. Goff did an excellent job of attempting to separate out what were in fact exaggerations and what was real impairment").
The State introduced a psychologist of its own (Dr. Kirkland) who strenuously disagreed with Dr. Woods's diagnosis and concluded that nothing "indicate[s] that Mr. McWilliams was mentally impaired on the night of the offense."
Id., at 1088.
At the end of a lengthy hearing in which both experts addressed the malingering issue (see, e.g., id., at 935-943, 955, 964-966, 1076-1077), the state postconviction court found that "McWilliams's claims based upon the testimony of Dr. Woods are without merit."
Id., at 1810.
It credited the "consensus opinion" reached by the three neutral state psychiatrists, who observed and evaluated McWilliams for over a month before his trial and concluded that he "did not suffer from a mental illness."
Id., at 1812.
It expressly found that "both the credibility of Dr. Woods and the reliability of his findings are questionable."
Id., at 1814.
And even if Dr. Woods's diagnosis was accurate, the court stated, it "[would] not find that a failure to present" evidence of this sort "made a difference in the outcome."
Id., 1815.6 The Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed, McWilliams v. State, 897 So.
2d 437 (2004), and the Alabama Supreme Court denied review.
I see no ground for disturbing the Eleventh Circuit's decision on harmless error.7
*??*??*
The Court's decision represents an inexcusable departure from sound practice.
I would affirm the judgment below, and I therefore respectfully dissent.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
The question was worded as follows: "When this Court held in Ake that an indigent defendant is entitled to meaningful expert assistance for the 'evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense,' did it clearly establish that the expert should be independent of the prosecution?"
Footnote 2
Defending its approach, the Court says that it had no need to decide the "sweeping" question on which review was granted "when a narrow one will do."
Ante, at 14.
Narrow holdings have their place, but here: (1) We denied review of the narrow question; (2) the question decided is not just narrow, it is the sort of factbound question as to which review is disfavored, see this Court's Rule 10; (3) the narrow question is not fairly included in the question presented, see this Court's Rule 14(a); (4) deciding the case on this narrow ground leaves in place the conflict in the lower courts that supported the grant of certiorari; and (5) the parties were not given notice of this possible disposition, and the Court was thus deprived of the benefit of full briefing and argument on the issue.
Footnote 3
The Sixth Circuit's experience, standing alone, is a telling reflection of Ake's ambiguity.
Years after Kordenbrock, a Sixth Circuit panel held that Ake requires a defense expert.
Powell v. Collins, 332 F. 3d 376, 392 (2003).
A later panel disagreed.
Smith v. Mitchell, 348 F. 3d 177, 207-208, and n. 10 (2003).
A different panel concluded three years later that the Circuit had "extend[ed] Ake" to require a defense expert.
Carter v. Mitchell, 443 F. 3d 517, 526 (2003).
A later panel insisted that "Ake does not entitle [defendants] to . . . an [independent psychiatric] expert," but to "a 'friend of the court' appointment."
Wogenstahl v. Mitchell, 668 F. 3d 307, 340 (2012).
The Sixth Circuit ultimately concluded that Ake did not itself clearly compel an answer to this question for AEDPA purposes.
Miller v. Colson, 694 F. 3d 691, 698 (2012) ("[O]ur own internal conflict about the scope of Ake evidences the reasonableness of the state court decision").
Footnote 4
The Court is incorrect in suggesting that Alabama "devoted an entire section of its merits brief" to the question that the Court decides.
Ante, at 14.
In the section to which the Court refers, Alabama argued that even if McWilliams was entitled to relief under Ake to a partisan expert, no relief was warranted because he "had a consulting expert that did not report to the State," i.e. "a psychologist employed at the University of Alabama," and because the trial court ordered every form of testing that the defense requested.
Brief for Respondents 50-52.
Exactly six sentences of the State's briefing in this section, id., at 52, touch on the services provided by Dr. Goff and the trial court's denial of a continuance.
The State's inclusion of this fleeting discussion cannot justify a decision based on a question on which relief was denied.
Footnote 5
The Court never even recites the applicable standard: whether the Alabama courts erred beyond fairminded disagreement in rejecting McWilliams's claim under Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U. S. 68 (1985).
Harrington v. Richter, 562 U. S. 86, 103 (2011).
This bar is difficult for a habeas petitioner to hurdle, and it is far from clear that McWilliams has done so.
The Court says that Dr. Goff did not play the role Ake requires of an expert because he only examined McWilliams and reported his findings to the trial court.
Ante, at 15.
But that is exactly what the trial court (at McWilliams's request) ordered him to do.
Cert.
Trial Record 1615, 1616.
The Court briskly concludes that Dr. Goff did not assist the defense in understanding his report prior to the hearing or testify for McWilliams at the judicial sentencing hearing.
Ante, at 14-15.
But the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals found "no indication in the record that [McWilliams] could not have called Dr. Goff as a witness to explain his findings or that he even tried to contact the psychiatrist to discuss his findings."
McWilliams v. State, 640 So.
2d 982, 991 (1991).
And the Eleventh Circuit saw no reason why McWilliams's defense team could not have been in contact with Dr. Goff while he was preparing the report.
McWilliams v. Commissioner, Ala.
Dept. of Corrections, 634 Fed.
Appx.
698, 706-707 (2015) ( per curiam).
Footnote 6
Dr. Goff was notably absent from the postconviction proceeding.
McWilliams's failure to call him as a witness there creates a "void in the record" that prevents McWilliams from carrying his burden of showing "how additional time with Dr. Goff (and his report) would have benefited the defense."
634 Fed.
Appx., at 712 (Jordan, J., concurring).
It also suggests that, to McWilliams's postconviction counsel, Dr. Goff 's diagnosis and the opportunity to present it to the sentencer was not as important as McWilliams suggests.
Footnote 7
McWilliams's entitlement to relief under Ake is questionable for an additional reason.
Ake held that the right to a psychiatric expert at capital sentencing comes into play "when the State presents psychiatric evidence of the defendant's future dangerousness."
470 U. S., at 83-84, 86.
Here, the State did not introduce such evidence because future dangerousness was not an aggravator under Alabama law.
See App.
182a-184a.
As lower courts have noted, we have never held that a capital defendant is entitled to the assistance of a psychiatric expert at sentencing where future dangerousness is not in issue and the State does not introduce psychiatric evidence to prove it.
See, e.g., Revilla v. Gibson, 283 F. 3d 1203, 1220-1221 (CA10 2002) ("Ake held only that an indigent capital defendant must, upon request, be provided an expert for the penalty phase when the State presents psychiatric evidence of the defendant's future dangerousness" (internal quotation marks omitted)); Ramdass v. Angelone, 187 F. 3d 396, 409 (CA4 1999) ("Ake provides a right to assistance of a mental health expert only if . . . , in arguing future dangerousness in the sentencing phase, the prosecution used expert psychiatric testimony"); Goodwin v. Johnson, 132 F. 3d 162, 189 (CA5 1997), as amended Jan. 15, 1998 ("Ake only creates an entitlement to the assistance of a psychiatrist during sentencing when the state offers psychiatric evidence of the defendant's future dangerousness" (emphasis deleted)).
MOORE v. TEXAS, (2017)
No. 15-797
Argued: November 29, 2016    Decided: March 28, 2017
Petitioner Moore was convicted of capital murder and sentenced to death for fatally shooting a store clerk during a botched robbery that occurred when Moore was 20 years old.
A state habeas court subsequently determined that, under Atkins v. Virginia, 536 U. S. 304, and Hall v. Florida, 572 U. S. ___, Moore qualified as intellectually disabled and that his death sentence therefore violated the Eighth Amendment's proscription of "cruel and unusual punishments."
The court consulted current medical diagnostic standards--the 11th edition of the American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities clinical manual (AAIDD-11) and the 5th edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric Association.
The habeas court followed the generally accepted intellectual-disability definition, which identifies three core elements: (1) intellectual-functioning deficits, (2) adaptive deficits, and (3) the onset of these deficits while still a minor.
Moore's IQ scores, the court determined, established subaverage intellectual functioning.
The court credited six scores, the average of which (70.66) indicated mild intellectual disability.
And relying on testimony from mental-health professionals, the court found significant adaptive deficits in all three skill sets (conceptual, social, and practical).
Based on its findings, the habeas court recommended to the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals (CCA) that Moore be granted relief.
The CCA declined to adopt the judgment recommended by the habeas court.
The CCA held instead that the habeas court erred by not following the CCA's 2004 decision in Ex parte Briseno, 135 S. W. 3d 1, which adopted the definition of, and standards for assessing, intellectual disability contained in the 1992 (ninth) edition of the American Association on Mental Retardation manual (AAMR-9), predecessor to the current AAIDD-11 manual.
Briseno also incorporated the AAMR-9's requirement that adaptive deficits must be "related" to intellectual-functioning deficits, and it recited, without citation to any medical or judicial authority, seven evidentiary factors relevant to the intellectual-disability inquiry.
Based on only two of Moore's IQ scores (of 74 and 78), the CCA concluded that Moore had not shown significantly subaverage intellectual functioning.
And even if he had, the CCA continued, his adaptive strengths undercut any adaptive weaknesses.
The habeas court also failed, the CCA determined, to inquire into relatedness.
Among alternative causes for Moore's adaptive deficits, the CCA suggested, were an abuse-filled childhood, undiagnosed learning disorders, multiple elementary-school transfers, racially motivated harassment and violence at school, and a history of academic failure, drug abuse, and absenteeism.
Briseno's seven evidentiary factors, the CCA further determined, weighed against finding that Moore had satisfied the relatedness requirement.
Held: By rejecting the habeas court's application of medical guidance and by following the Briseno standard, including the nonclinical Briseno factors, the CCA's decision does not comport with the Eighth Amendment and this Court's precedents.
Pp. 9-18.
(a) The Eighth Amendment, which " 'reaffirms the duty of the government to respect the dignity of all persons,' " Hall, 572 U. S., at ___, prohibits the execution of any intellectually disabled individual, Atkins, 536 U. S., at 321.
While Atkins and Hall left to the States "the task of developing appropriate ways to enforce" the restriction on executing the intellectually disabled, Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (internal quotation marks omitted), States' discretion is not "unfettered," id., at ___, and must be "informed by the medical community's diagnostic framework," id., at ___-___.
Relying on the most recent (and still current) versions of the leading diagnostic manuals, the Court concluded in Hall that Florida had "disregard[ed] established medical practice," id., at ___, and had parted ways with practices and trends in other States, id., at ___-___.
Hall indicated that being informed by the medical community does not demand adherence to everything stated in the latest medical guide.
But neither does precedent license disregard of current medical standards.
Pp. 9-10.
(b) The CCA's conclusion that Moore's IQ scores established that he is not intellectually disabled is irreconcilable with Hall, which instructs that, where an IQ score is close to, but above, 70, courts must account for the test's "standard error of measurement."
See 572 U. S., at ___-___, ___-___.
Because the lower range of Moore's adjusted IQ score of 74 falls at or below 70, the CCA had to move on to consider Moore's adaptive functioning.
Pp. 10-12.
(c) The CCA's consideration of Moore's adaptive functioning also deviated from prevailing clinical standards and from the older clinical standards the CCA deemed applicable.
Pp. 12-16.
(1) The CCA overemphasized Moore's perceived adaptive strengths--living on the streets, mowing lawns, and playing pool for money--when the medical community focuses the adaptive-functioning inquiry on adaptive deficits.
The CCA also stressed Moore's improved behavior in prison, but clinicians caution against reliance on adaptive strengths developed in controlled settings.
Pp. 12-13.
(2) The CCA further concluded that Moore's record of academic failure, along with a history of childhood abuse and suffering, detracted from a determination that his intellectual and adaptive deficits were related.
The medical community, however, counts traumatic experiences as risk factors for intellectual disability.
The CCA also departed from clinical practice by requiring Moore to show that his adaptive deficits were not related to "a personality disorder."
Mental-health professionals recognize that intellectually disabled people may have other co-existing mental or physical impairments, including, e.g., attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, depressive and bipolar disorders, and autism.
Pp. 13-14.
(3) The CCA's attachment to the seven Briseno evidentiary factors further impeded its assessment of Moore's adaptive functioning.
By design and in operation, the lay perceptions advanced by Briseno "creat[e] an unacceptable risk that persons with intellectual disability will be executed."
Hall, 572 U. S., at ___.
The medical profession has endeavored to counter lay stereotypes, and the Briseno factors are an outlier, in comparison both to other States' handling of intellectual-disability pleas and to Texas' own practices in contexts other than the death penalty.
Pp. 14-16.
(d) States have some flexibility, but not "unfettered discretion," in enforcing Atkins' holding, Hall, 572 U. S., at ___, and the medical community's current standards, reflecting improved understanding over time, constrain States' leeway in this area.
Here, the habeas court applied current medical standards in reaching its conclusion, but the CCA adhered to the standard it laid out in Briseno, including the nonclinical Briseno factors.
The CCA therefore failed adequately to inform itself of the "medical community's diagnostic framework," Hall, 572 U. S., at ___-___.
Because Briseno pervasively infected the CCA's analysis, the decision of that court cannot stand.
Pp. 17-18.
470 S. W. 3d 481, vacated and remanded.
Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Kennedy, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.
Roberts, C. J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Thomas and Alito, JJ., joined.
Opinion of the Court
581 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 15-797
BOBBY JAMES MOORE, PETITIONER v. TEXAS
on writ of certiorari to the court of criminal appeals of texas
[March 28, 2017]
Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.
Bobby James Moore fatally shot a store clerk during a botched robbery.
He was convicted of capital murder and sentenced to death.
Moore challenged his death sentence on the ground that he was intellectually disabled and therefore exempt from execution.
A state habeas court made detailed factfindings and determined that, under this Court's decisions in Atkins v. Virginia, 536 U. S. 304 (2002), and Hall v. Florida, 572 U. S. ___ (2014), Moore qualified as intellectually disabled.
For that reason, the court concluded, Moore's death sentence violated the Eighth Amendment's proscription of "cruel and unusual punishments."
The habeas court therefore recommended that Moore be granted relief.
The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals (CCA)1 declined to adopt the judgment recommended by the state habeas court.2 In the CCA's view, the habeas court erroneously employed intellectual-disability guides currently used in the medical community rather than the 1992 guides adopted by the CCA in Ex parte Briseno, 135 S. W. 3d 1 (2004).
See Ex parte Moore, 470 S. W. 3d 481, 486-487 (2015).
The appeals court further determined that the evidentiary factors announced in Briseno "weigh[ed] heavily" against upsetting Moore's death sentence.
470 S. W. 3d, at 526.
We vacate the CCA's judgment.
As we instructed in Hall, adjudications of intellectual disability should be "informed by the views of medical experts."
572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19); see id., at ___ (slip op., at 7).
That instruction cannot sensibly be read to give courts leave to diminish the force of the medical community's consensus.
Moreover, the several factors Briseno set out as indicators of intellectual disability are an invention of the CCA untied to any acknowledged source.
Not aligned with the medical community's information, and drawing no strength from our precedent, the Briseno factors "creat[e] an unacceptable risk that persons with intellectual disability will be executed," 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 1).
Accordingly, they may not be used, as the CCA used them, to restrict qualification of an individual as intellectually disabled.
I
In April 1980, then-20-year-old Bobby James Moore and two others were engaged in robbing a grocery store.
Ex parte Moore, 470 S. W. 3d 481, 490-491 (Tex.
Crim.
App.
2015); App.
58.
During the episode, Moore fatally shot a store clerk.
470 S. W. 3d, at 490.
Some two months later, Moore was convicted and sentenced to death.
See id., at 492.
A federal habeas court later vacated that sentence based on ineffective assistance of trial counsel, see Moore v. Collins, 1995 U. S. Dist.
LEXIS 22859, *35 (SD Tex., Sept. 29, 1995), and the Fifth Circuit affirmed, see Moore v. Johnson, 194 F. 3d 586, 622 (1999).
Moore was resentenced to death in 2001, and the CCA affirmed on direct appeal.
See Moore v. State, 2004 WL 231323, *1 (Jan. 14, 2004), cert.
denied, 543 U. S. 931 (2004).
Moore subsequently sought state habeas relief.
In 2014, the state habeas court conducted a two-day hearing on whether Moore was intellectually disabled.
See Ex parte Moore, No. 314483-C (185th Jud.
Dist., Harris Cty., Tex., Feb. 6, 2015), App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
129a.
The court received affidavits and heard testimony from Moore's family members, former counsel, and a number of court-appointed mental-health experts.
The evidence revealed that Moore had significant mental and social difficulties beginning at an early age.
At 13, Moore lacked basic understanding of the days of the week, the months of the year, and the seasons; he could scarcely tell time or comprehend the standards of measure or the basic principle that subtraction is the reverse of addition.
Id., at 187a.
At school, because of his limited ability to read and write, Moore could not keep up with lessons.
Id., at 146a, 182a-183a.
Often, he was separated from the rest of the class and told to draw pictures.
Ibid.
Moore's father, teachers, and peers called him "stupid" for his slow reading and speech.
Id., at 146a, 183a.
After failing every subject in the ninth grade, Moore dropped out of high school.
Id., at 188a.
Cast out of his home, he survived on the streets, eating from trash cans, even after two bouts of food poisoning.
Id., at 192a-193a.
In evaluating Moore's assertion of intellectual disability, the state habeas court consulted current medical diagnostic standards, relying on the 11th edition of the American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (AAIDD) clinical manual, see AAIDD, Intellectual Disability: Definition, Classification, and Systems of Supports (2010) (hereinafter AAIDD-11), and on the 5th edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric Association (APA), see APA, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (2013) (hereinafter DSM-5).
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
150a-151a, 202a.
The court followed the generally accepted, uncontroversial intellectual-disability diagnostic definition, which identifies three core elements: (1) intellectual-functioning deficits (indicated by an IQ score "approximately two standard deviations below the mean"--i.e., a score of roughly 70--adjusted for "the standard error of measurement," AAIDD-11, at 27); (2) adaptive deficits ("the inability to learn basic skills and adjust behavior to changing circumstances," Hall v. Flor- ida, 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 8)); and (3) the onset of these deficits while still a minor.
See App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
150a (citing AAIDD-11, at 1).
See also Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8).3
Moore's IQ scores, the habeas court determined, established subaverage intellectual functioning.
The court credited six of Moore's IQ scores, the average of which (70.66) indicated mild intellectual disability.
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
167a-170a.4 And relying on testimony from several mental-health experts, the habeas court found significant adaptive deficits.
In determining the significance of adaptive deficits, clinicians look to whether an individual's adaptive performance falls two or more standard deviations below the mean in any of the three adaptive skill sets (conceptual, social, and practical).
See AAIDD-11, at 43.
Moore's performance fell roughly two standard deviations below the mean in all three skill categories.
App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
200a-201a.
Based on this evidence, the state habeas court recommended that the CCA reduce Moore's sentence to life in prison or grant him a new trial on intellectual disability.
See id., at 203a.
The CCA rejected the habeas court's recommendations and denied Moore habeas relief.
See 470 S. W. 3d 481.
At the outset of its opinion, the CCA reaffirmed Ex parte Briseno, 135 S. W. 3d 1 (Tex.
Crim.
App.
2004), as paramount precedent on intellectual disability in Texas capital cases.
See 470 S. W. 3d, at 486-487.
Briseno adopted the definition of, and standards for assessing, intellectual disability contained in the 1992 (ninth) edition of the American Association on Mental Retardation (AAMR) manual, predecessor to the current AAIDD-11 manual.
See 135 S. W. 3d, at 7 (citing AAMR, Mental Retardation: Definition, Classification, and Systems of Supports (9th ed.
1992) (hereinafter AAMR-9)).
Briseno incorporated the AAMR-9's requirement that adaptive deficits be "related" to intellectual-functioning deficits.
135 S. W. 3d, at 7 (quoting AAMR-9, at 25).5 To determine whether a defendant has satisfied the relatedness requirement, the CCA instructed in this case, Texas courts should attend to the "seven evidentiary factors" first set out in Briseno.
470 S. W. 3d, at 489.6 No citation to any authority, medical or judicial, accompanied the Briseno court's recitation of the seven factors.
See 135 S. W. 3d, at 8-9.
The habeas judge erred, the CCA held, by "us[ing] the most current position, as espoused by AAIDD, regarding the diagnosis of intellectual disability rather than the test . . . in Briseno."
470 S. W. 3d, at 486.
This Court's decision in Atkins v. Virginia, 536 U. S. 304 (2002), the CCA emphasized, "left it to the States to develop appropriate ways to enforce the constitutional restriction" on the execution of the intellectually disabled.
470 S. W. 3d, at 486.
Thus, even though "[i]t may be true that the AAIDD's and APA's positions regarding the diagnosis of intellectual disability have changed since Atkins and Briseno," the CCA retained Briseno's instructions, both because of "the subjectivity surrounding the medical diagnosis of intellectual disability" and because the Texas Legislature had not displaced Briseno with any other guideposts.
470 S. W. 3d, at 486-487.
The Briseno inquiries, the court said, "remai[n] adequately 'informed by the medical community's diagnostic framework.' "
470 S. W. 3d, at 487 (quoting Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19-20)).
Employing Briseno, the CCA first determined that Moore had failed to prove significantly subaverage intellectual functioning.
470 S. W. 3d, at 514-519.
Rejecting as unreliable five of the seven IQ tests the habeas court had considered, the CCA limited its appraisal to Moore's scores of 78 in 1973 and 74 in 1989.
Id., at 518-519.
The court then discounted the lower end of the standard-error range associated with those scores.
Id., at 519; see infra, at 10-11 (describing standard error of measurement).
Regarding the score of 74, the court observed that Moore's history of academic failure, and the fact that he took the test while "exhibit[ing] withdrawn and depressive behavior" on death row, might have hindered his performance.
470 S. W. 3d, at 519.
Based on the two scores, but not on the lower portion of their ranges, the court concluded that Moore's scores ranked "above the intellectually disabled range" (i.e., above 70).
Ibid.; see id., at 513.
"Even if [Moore] had proven that he suffers from significantly sub-average general intellectual functioning," the court continued, he failed to prove "significant and related limitations in adaptive functioning."
Id., at 520.
True, the court acknowledged, Moore's and the State's experts agreed that Moore's adaptive-functioning test scores fell more than two standard deviations below the mean.
Id., at 521; see supra, at 4.
But the State's expert ultimately discounted those test results because Moore had "no exposure" to certain tasks the testing included, "such as writing a check and using a microwave oven."
470 S. W. 3d, at 521-522.
Instead, the expert emphasized Moore's adaptive strengths in school, at trial, and in prison.
Id., at 522-524.
The CCA credited the state expert's appraisal.
Id., at 524.
The habeas court, the CCA concluded, had erred by concentrating on Moore's adaptive weaknesses.
Id., at 489.
Moore had demonstrated adaptive strengths, the CCA spelled out, by living on the streets, playing pool and mowing lawns for money, committing the crime in a sophisticated way and then fleeing, testifying and representing himself at trial, and developing skills in prison.
Id., at 522-523.
Those strengths, the court reasoned, undercut the significance of Moore's adaptive limitations.
Id., at 524-525.
The habeas court had further erred, the CCA determined, by failing to consider whether any of Moore's adaptive deficits were related to causes other than his intellectualfunctioning deficits.
Id., at 488, 526.
Among alternative causes for Moore's adaptive deficits, the CCA suggested, were an abuse-filled childhood, undiagnosed learning disorders, multiple elementary-school transfers, racially motivated harassment and violence at school, and a history of academic failure, drug abuse, and absenteeism.
Ibid.
Moore's significant improvement in prison, in the CCA's view, confirmed that his academic and social difficulties were not related to intellectual-functioning deficits.
Ibid.
The court then examined each of the seven Briseno evidentiary factors, see supra, at 5-6, and n. 6, concluding that those factors "weigh[ed] heavily" against finding that Moore had satisfied the relatedness requirement.
470 S. W. 3d, at 526-527.
Judge Alcala dissented.
Atkins and Hall, she would have held, require courts to consult current medical standards to determine intellectual disability.
470 S. W. 3d, at 530.
She criticized the majority for relying on manuals superseded in the medical community, id., at 530-534, 536-539, and for disregarding the habeas court's credibility determinations, id., at 535-536, 538-539.
Judge Alcala questioned the legitimacy of the seven Briseno factors, recounting wide criticism of the factors and explaining how they deviate from the current medical consensus.
See 470 S. W. 3d, at 529-530, and n. 5.
Most emphatically, she urged, the CCA "must consult the medical community's current views and standards in determining whether a defendant is intellectually disabled"; "reliance on . . . standard[s] no longer employed by the medical community," she objected, "is constitutionally unacceptable."
Id., at 533.
We granted certiorari to determine whether the CCA's adherence to superseded medical standards and its reliance on Briseno comply with the Eighth Amendment and this Court's precedents.
578 U. S. ___ (2016).
II
The Eighth Amendment prohibits "cruel and unusual punishments," and "reaffirms the duty of the government to respect the dignity of all persons," Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (quoting Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. 551, 560 (2005)).
"To enforce the Constitution's protection of human dignity," we "loo[k] to the evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society," recognizing that "[t]he Eighth Amendment is not fastened to the obsolete."
Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (internal quotation marks omitted).
In Atkins v. Virginia, we held that the Constitution "restrict[s] . . . the State's power to take the life of" any intellectually disabled individual.
536 U. S., at 321.
See also Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6); Roper, 543 U. S., at 563-564.
Executing intellectually disabled individuals, we concluded in Atkins, serves no penological purpose, see 536 U. S., at 318-320; runs up against a national consensus against the practice, see id., at 313-317; and creates a "risk that the death penalty will be imposed in spite of factors which may call for a less severe penalty," id., at 320 (internal quotation marks omitted); see id., at 320-321.
In Hall v. Florida, we held that a State cannot refuse to entertain other evidence of intellectual disability when a defendant has an IQ score above 70.
572 U. S., at ___-___ (slip op., at 21-22).
Although Atkins and Hall left to the States "the task of developing appropriate ways to enforce" the restriction on executing the intellectually disabled, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17) (quoting Atkins, 536 U. S., at 317), States' discretion, we cautioned, is not "unfettered," 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17).
Even if "the views of medical experts" do not "dictate" a court's intellectual-disability determination, id., at ___ (slip op., at 19), we clarified, the determination must be "informed by the medical community's diagnostic framework," id., at ___-___ (slip op., at 19-20).
We relied on the most recent (and still current) versions of the leading diagnostic manuals--the DSM-5 and AAIDD-11.
Id., at ___, ___, ___-___, ___-___ (slip op., at 3, 8, 10-11, 20-21).
Florida, we concluded, had violated the Eighth Amendment by "disregard[ing] established medical practice."
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 10).
We further noted that Florida had parted ways with practices and trends in other States.
Id., at ___-___ (slip op., at 12-16).
Hall indicated that being informed by the medical community does not demand adherence to everything stated in the latest medical guide.
But neither does our precedent license disregard of current medical standards.
III
The CCA's conclusion that Moore's IQ scores established that he is not intellectually disabled is irreconcilable with Hall.
Hall instructs that, where an IQ score is close to, but above, 70, courts must account for the test's "standard error of measurement."
See id., at ___-___, ___-___ (slip op., at 10-11, 21-22).
See also Brumfield v. Cain, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 10) (relying on Hall to find unreasonable a state court's conclusion that a score of 75 precluded an intellectual-disability finding).
As we explained in Hall, the standard error of measurement is "a statistical fact, a reflection of the inherent imprecision of the test itself."
572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10).
"For purposes of most IQ tests," this imprecision in the testing instrument "means that an individual's score is best understood as a range of scores on either side of the recorded score . . . within which one may say an individual's true IQ score lies."
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 11).
A test's standard error of measurement "reflects the reality that an individual's intellectual functioning cannot be reduced to a single numerical score."
Ibid.
See also id., at ___-___ (slip op., at 10-12); DSM-5, at 37; AAIDD, User's Guide: Intellectual Disability: Definition, Classification, and Systems of Supports 22-23 (11th ed.
2012) (hereinafter AAIDD-11 User's Guide).
Moore's score of 74, adjusted for the standard error of measurement, yields a range of 69 to 79, see 470 S. W. 3d, at 519, as the State's retained expert acknowledged, see Brief for Petitioner 39, n. 18; App.
185, 189-190.
Because the lower end of Moore's score range falls at or below 70, the CCA had to move on to consider Moore's adaptive functioning.
See Hall, 572 U. S., at ___-___ (slip op., at 21-22); 470 S. W. 3d, at 536 (Alcala, J., dissenting) (even if the majority correctly limited the scores it would consider, "current medical standards . . . would still require [the CCA] to examine whether [Moore] has adaptive deficits").
Both Texas and the dissent maintain that the CCA properly considered factors unique to Moore in disregarding the lower end of the standard-error range.
Post, at 14-15; Brief for Respondent 41-42; see supra, at 6-7; 470 S. W. 3d, at 519.
But the presence of other sources of imprecision in administering the test to a particular individual, see post, at 14-16, and n. 3, cannot narrow the test-specific standard-error range.7
In requiring the CCA to move on to consider Moore's adaptive functioning in light of his IQ evidence, we do not suggest that "the Eighth Amendment turns on the slightest numerical difference in IQ score," post, at 15-16.
Hall invalidated Florida's strict IQ cutoff because the cutoff took "an IQ score as final and conclusive evidence of a defendant's intellectual capacity, when experts in the field would consider other evidence."
572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10).
Here, by contrast, we do not end the intellectual-disability inquiry, one way or the other, based on Moore's IQ score.
Rather, in line with Hall, we require that courts continue the inquiry and consider other evidence of intellectual disability where an individual's IQ score, adjusted for the test's standard error, falls within the clinically established range for intellectual-functioning deficits.
IV
The CCA's consideration of Moore's adaptive functioning also deviated from prevailing clinical standards and from the older clinical standards the court claimed to apply.
A
In concluding that Moore did not suffer significant adaptive deficits, the CCA overemphasized Moore's perceived adaptive strengths.
The CCA recited the strengths it perceived, among them, Moore lived on the streets, mowed lawns, and played pool for money.
See 470 S. W. 3d, at 522-523, 526-527.
Moore's adaptive strengths, in the CCA's view, constituted evidence adequate to overcome the considerable objective evidence of Moore's adaptive deficits, see supra, at 4; App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
180a-202a.
See 470 S. W. 3d, at 522-524, 526-527.
But the medical community focuses the adaptive-functioning inquiry on adaptive deficits.
E.g., AAIDD-11, at 47 ("significant limitations in conceptual, social, or practical adaptive skills [are] not outweighed by the potential strengths in some adaptive skills"); DSM-5, at 33, 38 (inquiry should focus on "[d]eficits in adaptive functioning"; deficits in only one of the three adaptive-skills domains suffice to show adaptive deficits); see Brumfield, 576 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15) ("[I]ntellectually disabled persons may have 'strengths in social or physical capabilities, strengths in some adaptive skill areas, or strengths in one aspect of an adaptive skill in which they otherwise show an overall limitation.' "
(quoting AAMR, Mental Retardation: Definition, Classification, and Systems of Supports 8 (10th ed.
2002)).8
In addition, the CCA stressed Moore's improved behavior in prison.
470 S. W. 3d, at 522-524, 526-527.
Clinicians, however, caution against reliance on adaptive strengths developed "in a controlled setting," as a prison surely is.
DSM-5, at 38 ("Adaptive functioning may be difficult to assess in a controlled setting (e.g., prisons, detention centers); if possible, corroborative information reflecting functioning outside those settings should be obtained.")
; see AAIDD-11 User's Guide 20 (counseling against reliance on "behavior in jail or prison").
B
The CCA furthermore concluded that Moore's record of academic failure, along with the childhood abuse and suffering he endured, detracted from a determination that his intellectual and adaptive deficits were related.
See 470 S. W. 3d, at 488, 526; supra, at 5, 7-8.
Those traumatic experiences, however, count in the medical community as "risk factors" for intellectual disability.
AAIDD-11, at 59-60 (emphasis added).
Clinicians rely on such factors as cause to explore the prospect of intellectual disability further, not to counter the case for a disability determination.
See id., at 60 ("[A]t least one or more of the risk factors [described in the manual] will be found in every case of" intellectual disability.)
.
The CCA also departed from clinical practice by requiring Moore to show that his adaptive deficits were not related to "a personality disorder."
470 S. W. 3d, at 488; see id., at 526 (Moore's problems in kindergarten were "more likely cause[d]" by "emotional problems" than by intellectual disability).
As mental-health professionals recognize, however, many intellectually disabled people also have other mental or physical impairments, for example, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, depressive and bipolar disorders, and autism.
DSM-5, at 40 ("[c]o-occurring mental, neurodevelopmental, medical, and physical conditions are frequent in intellectual disability, with rates of some conditions (e.g., mental disorders, cerebral palsy, and epilepsy) three to four times higher than in the general population"); see AAIDD-11, at 58-63.
Coexisting conditions frequently encountered in intellectually disabled individuals have been described in clinical literature as "[c]omorbidit[ies]."
DSM-5, at 40.
See also Brief for AAIDD et al. as Amici Curiae 20, and n. 25.
The existence of a personality disorder or mental-health issue, in short, is "not evidence that a person does not also have intellectual disability."
Brief for American Psychological Association, APA, et al. as Amici Curiae 19.
C
The CCA's attachment to the seven Briseno evidentiary factors further impeded its assessment of Moore's adaptive functioning.
1
By design and in operation, the Briseno factors "creat[e] an unacceptable risk that persons with intellectual disability will be executed," Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 1).
After observing that persons with "mild" intellectual disability might be treated differently under clinical standards than under Texas' capital system, the CCA defined its objective as identifying the "consensus of Texas citizens" on who "should be exempted from the death penalty."
Briseno, 135 S. W. 3d, at 6 (emphasis added).
Mild levels of intellectual disability, although they may fall outside Texas citizens' consensus, nevertheless remain intellectual disabilities, see Hall, 572 U. S., at ___-___ (slip op., at 17-18); Atkins, 536 U. S., at 308, and n. 3; AAIDD-11, at 153, and States may not execute anyone in "the entire category of [intellectually disabled] offenders," Roper, 543 U. S., at 563-564 (emphasis added); see supra, at 9.
Skeptical of what it viewed as "exceedingly subjective" medical and clinical standards, the CCA in Briseno advanced lay perceptions of intellectual disability.
135 S. W. 3d, at 8; see supra, at 5-6, and n. 6.
Briseno asks, for example, "Did those who knew the person best during the developmental stage--his family, friends, teachers, employers, authorities--think he was mentally retarded at that time, and, if so, act in accordance with that determination?"
135 S. W. 3d, at 8.
Addressing that question here, the CCA referred to Moore's education in "normal classrooms during his school career," his father's reactions to his academic challenges, and his sister's perceptions of Moore's intellectual abilities.
470 S. W. 3d, at 526-527.
But the medical profession has endeavored to counter lay stereotypes of the intellectually disabled.
See AAIDD-11 User's Guide 25-27; Brief for AAIDD et al. as Amici Cu- riae 9-14, and nn.
11-15.
Those stereotypes, much more than medical and clinical appraisals, should spark skepticism.9
2
The Briseno factors are an outlier, in comparison both to other States' handling of intellectual-disability pleas and to Texas' own practices in other contexts.
See Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12) (consensus in the States provides "objective indicia of society's standards in the context of the Eighth Amendment" (internal quotation marks omitted)).
No state legislature has approved the use of the Briseno factors or anything similar.
In the 12 years since Texas adopted the factors, only one other state high court and one state intermediate appellate court have authorized their use.
See, e.g., Commonwealth v. Bracey, 632 Pa. 75, ___-___, 117 A. 3d 270, 286-287 (2015); Howell v. State, 2011 WL 2420378, *18 (Tenn.
Crim.
App., June 14, 2011).
Indeed, Texas itself does not follow Briseno in contexts other than the death penalty.
See Brief for Constitution Project as Amicus Curiae 14-17.
For example, the related-ness requirement Texas defends here, see supra, at 5-6, is conspicuously absent from the standards the State uses to assess students for intellectual disabilities.
See 19 Tex.
Admin.
Code §89.1040(c)(5) (2015).
And even within Texas' criminal-justice system, the State requires the intellectual-disability diagnoses of juveniles to be based on "the latest edition of the DSM."
37 Tex.
Admin.
Code §380.8751(e)(3) (2016).
Texas cannot satisfactorily explain why it applies current medical standards for diagnosing intellectual disability in other contexts, yet clings to superseded standards when an individual's life is at stake.10
V
As noted supra, at 9, States have some flexibility, but not "unfettered discretion," in enforcing Atkins' holding.
Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17).
"If the States were to have complete autonomy to define intellectual disability as they wished," we have observed, "Atkins could become a nullity, and the Eighth Amendment's protection of human dignity would not become a reality."
Id., at ___-___ (slip op., at 18-19).
The medical community's current standards supply one constraint on States' leeway in this area.
Reflecting improved understanding over time, see DSM-5, at 7; AAIDD-11, at xiv-xv, current manuals offer "the best available description of how mental disorders are expressed and can be recognized by trained clinicians," DSM-5, at xli.
See also Hall, 572 U. S., at ___, ___, ___, ___-___, ___-___ (slip op., at 2, 3, 8, 10-11, 20-21) (employing current clinical standards); Atkins, 536 U. S., at 308, n. 3, 317, n. 22 (relying on then-current standards).
In Moore's case, the habeas court applied current medical standards in concluding that Moore is intellectually disabled and therefore ineligible for the death penalty.
See, e.g., App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
150a-151a, 200a-203a.
The CCA, however, faulted the habeas court for "disregarding [the CCA's] case law and employing the definition of intellectual disability presently used by the AAIDD."
470 S. W. 3d, at 486.
The CCA instead fastened its intellectual-disability determination to "the AAMR's 1992 definition of intellectual disability that [it] adopted in Briseno for Atkins claims presented in Texas death-penalty cases."
Ibid.
By rejecting the habeas court's application of medical guidance and clinging to the standard it laid out in Briseno, including the wholly nonclinical Briseno factors, the CCA failed adequately to inform itself of the "medical community's diagnostic framework," Hall, 572 U. S., at ___-___ (slip op., at 19-20).
Because Briseno pervasively infected the CCA's analysis, the decision of that court cannot stand.
*??*??*
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
Roberts, C. J., dissenting
581 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 15-797
BOBBY JAMES MOORE, PETITIONER v. TEXAS
on writ of certiorari to the court of criminal appeals of texas
[March 28, 2017]
Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Alito join, dissenting.
The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals (CCA) concluded that Bobby James Moore was not intellectually disabled so as to be exempt from the death penalty under Atkins v. Virginia, 536 U. S. 304 (2002).
It reached that conclusion based on its findings that he had failed to establish either significantly subaverage intellectual functioning or related significant deficits in adaptive behavior.
The latter conclusion was based, in part, on the CCA's analysis of a set of seven "evidentiary factors" from Ex parte Briseno, 135 S. W. 3d 1, 8 (Tex.
Crim.
App.
2004).
I agree with the Court today that those factors are an unacceptable method of enforcing the guarantee of Atkins, and that the CCA therefore erred in using them to analyze adaptive deficits.
But I do not agree that the CCA erred as to Moore's intellectual functioning.
Because the CCA's determination on that ground is an independent basis for its judgment, I would affirm the decision below.
My broader concern with today's opinion, however, is that it abandons the usual mode of analysis this Court has employed in Eighth Amendment cases.
The Court overturns the CCA's conclusion that Moore failed to present sufficient evidence of both inadequate intellectual functioning and significant deficits in adaptive behavior without even considering "objective indicia of society's standards" reflected in the practices among the States.
Hall v. Florida, 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 12) (quoting Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. 551, 563 (2005)).
The Court instead crafts a constitutional holding based solely on what it deems to be medical consensus about intellectual disability.
But clinicians, not judges, should determine clinical standards; and judges, not clinicians, should determine the content of the Eighth Amendment.
Today's opinion confuses those roles, and I respectfully dissent.
I
On April 25, 1980, Moore and two others were throwing dice when they decided to commit a robbery to obtain money for car payments.
Moore provided the group with two firearms, and the three men began to drive around Houston looking for a target.
Eventually they settled on the Birdsall Super Market.
After negotiating their respective shares of the money they intended to steal and donning disguises, the three went inside, heading straight to a courtesy booth staffed by James McCarble and Edna Scott.
When Scott realized a robbery was occurring and screamed, Moore shot McCarble in the head, killing the 70-year-old instantly.
Moore fled Houston and remained on the run until his arrest in Louisiana ten days after the murder.
After giving a written statement admitting his participation in the robbery and killing, Moore was charged with capital murder.
A jury convicted him and sentenced him to death.
Over the next three decades, Moore's case traversed the state and federal court systems, finally reaching the Atkins hearing at issue today in 2014.
The state habeas court conducted a two-day evidentiary hearing, during which it heard testimony from family members, a fellow inmate, a prison official, and four mental health professionals.
The court concluded that Moore had shown intellectual disability and recommended that he be granted relief.
But it was just that: a recommendation.
Under Texas law, the CCA, not the habeas court, is the ultimate factfinder in habeas corpus proceedings.
Ex parte Reed, 271 S. W. 3d 698, 727 (Tex.
Crim.
App.
2008); see also Ex parte Moore, 470 S. W. 3d 481, 489 (Tex.
Crim.
App.
2015).
Assuming that role, the CCA declined to adopt the habeas court's findings and conclusions, instead conducting its own review of the record to determine whether Moore had shown he was intellectually disabled.
The CCA began by considering the appropriate legal standard for assessing intellectual disability.
Following our instruction to the States to "develop[ ] appropriate ways to enforce" Atkins, 536 U. S., at 317 (internal quotation marks omitted), the CCA had set out a legal definition for intellectual disability in its prior decision in Ex parte Briseno.
Rather than follow that test, the habeas court below crafted its own standards for intellectual disability.
But "[t]he decision to modify the legal standard for intellectual disability in the capital-sentencing context," the CCA explained, "rests with this Court unless and until the Legislature acts."
470 S. W. 3d, at 487.
Just as we have corrected lower courts for taking it upon themselves to dismiss our precedent as outdated, see, e.g., Bosse v. Okla- homa, 580 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (per curiam) (slip op., at 2), so too the CCA rebuked the habeas court for ignoring binding CCA precedent.
The CCA went on to explain why there was no reason to modify the legal standard it had previously set out.
Briseno had stated a rule that in order for an Atkins claimant to demonstrate intellectual disability he must show (1) significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning and (2) related limitations in adaptive functioning, (3) which had appeared prior to age 18.
See 470 S. W. 3d, at 486.
It also laid out a set of seven evidentiary factors--the "Briseno factors"--designed to assist "factfinders . . . in weighing evidence" of intellectual disability.
Briseno, 135 S. W. 3d, at 8.
The three-prong definition of intellectual disability came directly from the ninth edition of the manual published by what is now the American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (AAIDD).
Id., at 7; see American Association on Mental Retardation, Mental Retardation: Definition, Classification, and Systems of Supports 5 (9th ed.
1992).
By the time Moore's case reached the CCA, the AAIDD no longer included the requirement that adaptive deficits be "related" to intellectual functioning.
But, as the CCA noted, the most recent version of the other leading diagnostic manual, the DSM-5, did include that requirement.
470 S. W. 3d, at 487, n. 5; American Psychiatric Association, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 38 (5th ed.
2013) (hereinafter DSM-5).
So the CCA was faced with a choice in Moore: Keeping the relatedness requirement would be inconsistent with the AAIDD's current guidance; dropping it would be out of step with the newest version of the DSM.
The CCA concluded that "the legal test we established in Briseno remains adequately 'informed by the medical community's diagnostic framework,' " and went on to evaluate the case under that approach.
470 S. W. 3d, at 487 (quoting Hall, 572 U. S., at ___-___ (slip op., at 19-20)).
Starting with intellectual functioning, the CCA conducted a painstaking analysis of the battery of tests Moore had taken over the past 40 years.
The CCA concluded that five of the tests the habeas court had considered were unreliable: two of them were neuropsychological tests rather than formal IQ measures; two were group-administered tests, which Moore's own experts had criticized, App.
12 (Otis-Lennon Mental Abilities Test "not accepted as an instrument appropriate for the assessment of mental retardation or intellectual deficiency"); id., at 115-116 (Slosson is "not the greatest test" and "not the most reliable approach"); and the administrator of the fifth test concluded it was "not . . . a valid score" because of evidence of suboptimal effort, id., at 203.
That left two scores for the CCA to analyze: a 78 and a 74.
Significantly subaverage intellectual functioning is "generally shown by an [IQ] of 70 or less."
470 S. W. 3d, at 486.
"Taking into account the standard error of measurement" for the 78 score yielded a range of 73 to 83--i.e., a range that did not include an IQ of 70 or less.
Id., at 519.
As for the 74, the CCA again considered the standard error of measurement, which yielded a score range of 69 to 79.
The lower end of that range placed Moore within the parameters for significantly subaverage intellectual functioning.
The CCA found, however, that Moore's score was unlikely to be in the lower end of the error-generated range because he was likely exerting poor effort and experiencing depression at the time the test was administered--both factors that Moore's experts agreed could artificially deflate IQ scores.
Id., at 516-517, 519; App.
46, 92.
The CCA accordingly concluded that Moore had failed to present sufficient evidence of significantly subaverage intellectual functioning.
Having failed one part of the CCA's three-part test, Moore could not be found intellectually disabled.
The CCA nonetheless went on to consider the second prong of the test, Moore's adaptive deficits.
Moore had taken a standardized test of adaptive functioning in which he scored more than two standard deviations below the mean.
But Dr. Kristi Compton, the state expert who had administered that test, explained that it was not an accurate measure of Moore's abilities.
She reached this conclusion not because of Moore's adaptive strengths but instead because "she had to assign zeroes to questions asking about areas to which [Moore] had no exposure, such as writing a check and using a microwave oven."
470 S. W. 3d, at 522.
Dr. Compton further opined that her evaluation of Moore and review of documentary evidence--including school, trial, and prison records--did not show adaptive deficits sufficient for an intellectual disability diagnosis.
App.
185; see 470 S. W. 3d, at 521-524.
The CCA also considered and recounted the testimony of the other experts who, unlike Dr. Compton, concluded that Moore had shown significant adaptive deficits.
As factfinders often do in confronting conflicting evidence, the CCA made a credibility determination.
The opinion of Dr. Compton, the CCA concluded, was "far more credible and reliable" than those of Moore's experts, given Dr. Compton's "considerable experience," "thorough[ ] and rigorous[ ] review[ ] [of] a great deal of material," and personal evaluation of Moore.
Id., at 524.
Based on Dr. Compton's expert opinion, the CCA concluded Moore had failed to demonstrate significant adaptive deficits.
Finally, the CCA considered whether, even assuming that Moore had made sufficient showings as to intellectual functioning and adaptive deficits, those two were related.
Again finding Dr. Compton's testimony the most credible, the CCA concluded that "the record overwhelmingly supports the conclusion" that Moore's observed academic and social difficulties stemmed, not from low intellectual abilities, but instead from outside factors like the trauma and abuse he suffered as a child and his drug use at a young age.
Id., at 526.
The CCA explained that, in addition to Dr. Compton's expert testimony, consideration of the seven Briseno factors reinforced that relatedness conclusion.
Given that Moore had failed to present sufficient evidence on intellectual functioning or related adaptive deficits, the CCA "conclude[d] that for Eighth Amendment purposes," Moore had not shown he was intellectually disabled.
470 S. W. 3d, at 527.
Accordingly, he was not exempt from execution under Atkins.
II
A
This Court's precedents have emphasized the importance of state legislative judgments in giving content to the Eighth Amendment ban on cruel and unusual punishment.
"Eighth Amendment judgments should not be . . . merely the subjective views of individual Justices."
Coker v. Georgia, 433 U. S. 584, 592 (1977) (plurality opinion).
For that reason, we have emphasized that "judgment should be informed by objective factors to the maximum possible extent."
Ibid.
The "clearest and most reliable objective evidence of contemporary values" comes from state legislative judgments.
Atkins, 536 U. S., at 312 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Such legislative judgments are critical because in "a democratic society legislatures, not courts, are constituted to respond to the will and consequently the moral values of the people."
Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U. S. 153, 175 (1976) (joint opinion of Stewart, Powell, and Stevens, JJ.)
(internal quotation marks omitted).
And we have focused on state enactments in this realm because of the "deference we owe to the decisions of the state legislatures under our federal system . . . where the specification of punishments is concerned."
Id., at 176.
For these reasons, we have described state legislative judgments as providing "essential instruction" in conducting the Eighth Amendment inquiry.
Roper, 543 U. S., at 564.
Our decisions addressing capital punishment for the intellectually disabled recognize the central significance of state consensus.
In holding that the Eighth Amendment prohibits the execution of intellectually disabled individuals in Atkins, the Court first identified a national consensus against the practice and then, applying our own "independent evaluation of the issue," concluded that there was "no reason to disagree" with that consensus.
536 U. S., at 321.
The scope of our holding--guided as it was by the national consensus--swept only as far as that consensus.
We recognized that there remained the potential for "serious disagreement . . . in determining which offenders are in fact retarded."
Id., at 317.
And we did not seek to provide "definitive procedural or substantive guides for determining when a person who claims mental retardation will be so impaired as to fall within Atkins' compass."
Bobby v. Bies, 556 U. S. 825, 831 (2009) (alterations and internal quotation marks omitted).
Instead, we left "to the States the task of developing appropriate ways to enforce the constitutional restriction upon their execution of sentences."
Atkins, 536 U. S., at 317 (quoting Ford v. Wainwright, 477 U. S. 399, 416-417 (1986); alterations omitted).
Twelve years after Atkins, the Court confronted one State's attempt to enforce the holding of that case.
Hall v. Florida considered Florida's rule requiring a prisoner to present an IQ score of 70 or below to make out an Atkins claim.
Although the Court thought it "proper to consider the psychiatric and professional studies that elaborate on the purpose and meaning of IQ scores," it emphasized that "[t]he legal determination of intellectual disability is distinct from a medical diagnosis."
572 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 7, 19).
It was "the Court's duty"--not that of medical experts--"to interpret the Constitution."
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 19).
The Court's conclusion that Florida's rule was "in direct opposition to the views of those who design, administer, and interpret the IQ test" was not enough to decide the case.
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 22).
Instead, consistent with our settled approach, the Court canvassed "the legislative policies of various States," as well as "the holdings of state courts," because it was state policies that provided "essential instruction" for determining the scope of the constitutional guarantee.
Id., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 7, 19) (quoting Roper, 543 U. S., at 564).
State policy, the Court concluded, indicated a "consensus that our society does not regard [Florida's rule] as proper or humane," and that "consensus . . . instruct[ed us] how to decide the specific issue presented."
572 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 7, 16).
The Court was sharply divided on that conclusion, see id., at ___-___ (slip op., at 4-7) (Alito, J., dissenting), but not on the fact that our precedent mandated such an inquiry.
B
Today's decision departs from this Court's precedents, followed in Atkins and Hall, establishing that the determination of what is cruel and unusual rests on a judicial judgment about societal standards of decency, not a medical assessment of clinical practice.
The Court rejects the CCA's conclusion that Moore failed to make the requisite showings with respect to intellectual functioning and adaptive deficits, without any consideration of the state practices that were, three Terms ago, "essential" to the Eighth Amendment question.
Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19).
The Court instead finds error in the CCA's analysis based solely on what the Court views to be departure from typical clinical practice.
The clinical guides on which the Court relies today are "designed to assist clinicians in conducting clinical assessment, case formulation, and treatment planning."
DSM-5, at 25.
They do not seek to dictate or describe who is morally culpable--indeed, the DSM-5 cautions its readers about "the imperfect fit between the questions of ultimate concern to the law and the information contained" within its pages.
Ibid.
The Eighth Amendment, under our precedent, is supposed to impose a moral backstop on punishment, prohibiting sentences that our society deems repugnant.
The Court, however, interprets that constitutional guarantee as turning on clinical guidelines that do not purport to reflect standards of decency.
The Court's refusal even to address what we previously "pinpointed" as "the clearest and most reliable objective evidence" of such standards--the practices among the States--goes unexplained by the majority.
Atkins, 536 U. S., at 312 (internal quotation marks omitted).
A second problem with the Court's approach is the lack of guidance it offers to States seeking to enforce the holding of Atkins.
Recognizing that we have, in the very recent past, held that " 'the views of medical experts' do not 'dictate' a court's intellectual-disability determination," the Court assures us that it is not requiring adherence "to everything stated in the latest medical guide," ante, at 9-10 (quoting Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19)); States have "some flexibility" but cannot "disregard" medical standards.
Ante, at 10, 17.
Neither the Court's articulation of this standard nor its application sheds any light on what it means.
Start with the Court's stated principle.
"Disregard" normally means to dismiss as unworthy of attention, and that is plainly not what the CCA did here.
For example, the Court faults the CCA for placing too much weight on Moore's adaptive strengths and functioning in prison, implying that this marked a dismissal of clinical standards.
Yet the CCA was aware of and, in a prior decision, had addressed the fact that some clinicians would counsel against considering such information.
See 470 S. W. 3d, at 489 (citing Ex parte Cathey, 451 S. W. 3d 1, 26-27 (2014)).
Both because "[m]ost courts . . . consider all of the person's functional abilities" and because it seemed "foolhardy" to ignore strengths, the CCA thought it proper to take note of them.
Id., at 27.
As to prison conduct, the CCA decided that the fundamental questions the Atkins inquiry sought to answer were best considered--and "sound scientific principles" best served--by taking account of "all possible data that sheds light on a person's adaptive functioning, including his conduct in a prison society."
451 S. W. 3d, at 26-27.
The CCA considered clinical standards and explained why it decided that departure from those standards was warranted.
The court did not "disregard" medical standards.
Nor do the Court's identified errors clarify the scope of the "flexibility" we are told States retain in this area.
The Court faults the CCA for "overemphasiz[ing]" strengths and "stress[ing]" Moore's conduct in prison, ante, at 12-13, suggesting that some--but not too much--consideration of strengths and prison functioning is acceptable.
The Court's only guidance on when "some" becomes "too much"?
Citations to clinical guides.
See ibid.
But if courts do have "flexibility" in enforcing the guarantee of Atkins and need not "adhere[ ]" to these guides in every instance or particular, ante, at 10, 17, then clinical texts, standing alone, cannot answer the question of why the CCA placed too much weight on adaptive strengths and prison conduct.
The line between the permissible--consideration, maybe even emphasis--and the forbidden--"overemphasis"--is not only thin, but totally undefined by today's decision.
It is not at all clear when a State's deviation from medical consensus becomes so great as to "diminish the force" of that consensus, ante, at 2, and thereby violate the Constitution.
Finally, the Court's decision constitutionalizes rules for which there is not even clinical consensus--a consequence that will often arise from the approach charted by the Court today.
Consider the Court's conclusion that, contrary to "the medical community['s] focus[ ] . . . on adaptive deficits," "the CCA overemphasized Moore's perceived adaptive strengths."
Ante, at 12.
In support of this proposition, the Court cites the AAIDD's direction that "significant limitations in conceptual, social, or practical adaptive skills [are] not outweighed by the potential strengths in some adaptive skills."
AAIDD, Intellectual Disability: Definition, Classification, and Systems of Supports 47 (11th ed.
2010) (hereinafter AAIDD-11).
Even assuming that all clinicians would agree with this statement, there are a number of ways it might be interpreted: as meaning that strengths in one of the three adaptive skill areas--conceptual, social, and practical--should not cancel out deficits in another; as meaning that strengths should not outweigh deficits within the same skill area; or as meaning that evidence of some ability to perform a skill should not offset evidence of the inability to perform that same skill.
And it appears that clinicians do, in fact, disagree about what this direction means.
Compare, e.g., Brief for AAIDD et al. as Amici Curiae 17 ("The clinician's diagnostic focus does not--and cannot--involve any form of 'balancing' deficits against the abilities or strengths which the particular individual may also possess" (emphasis added)) with Hagan, Drogin, & Guilmette, Assessing Adaptive Functioning in Death Penalty Cases after Hall and DSM-5, 44 J. Am.
Acad.
Psychiatry & L. 96, 98 (2016) ("Any assessment of adaptive functioning must give sufficient consideration to assets and deficits alike. . . . [I]nventorying only assets or deficits . . . departs from DSM-5, [the AAIDD-11], and all other established frameworks" (footnotes omitted)).
The same is true about consideration of prison conduct.
The two primary clinical guides do offer caution about considering functioning in prison.
But the stringency of their caution differs, with the AAIDD seeming to enact a flat ban on ever looking to functioning in prison and the DSM urging "if possible" to consider "corroborative information reflecting functioning outside" of prison.
AAIDD, User's Guide: Intellectual Disability: Definition, Classification, and Systems of Supports 20 (11th ed.
2012); DSM-5, at 38.
The CCA followed the DSM-5's instruction, relying on Dr. Compton's conclusion that "even before [Moore] went to prison" he demonstrated a "level of adaptive functioning . . . too great . . . to support an intellectual-disability diagnosis."
470 S. W. 3d, at 526.
In determining that the CCA erred in this regard, the Court implicitly rejects the DSM-5's approach to the proper consideration of prison conduct and accepts what it takes to be that of the AAIDD.
The Court does not attempt to explain its justification for why the Eighth Amendment should favor one side over the other in this clinical debate.
"Psychiatry is not . . . an exact science."
Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U. S. 68, 81 (1985). "
[B]ecause there often is no single, accurate psychiatric conclusion," we have emphasized the importance of allowing the "primary factfinder[ ]" to "resolve differences in opinion . . . on the basis of the evidence offered by each party."
Ibid.
You would not know it from reading the Court's opinion today, but that is precisely what the CCA--the factfinder under Texas law--did in the decision below: Confronted with dueling expert opinions about how to evaluate adaptive functioning and what conclusion to reach, the CCA resolved the dispute before it by accepting the testimony of the expert it deemed most credible.
Of course, reliance on an expert opinion does not insulate a decision from further judicial review.
But, unlike the Court, I am unwilling to upset the considered judgment of the forensic psychologist that the factfinding court deemed the most credible based on my own interpretation of a few sentences excised from medical texts.
III
As for how I would resolve this case, there is one aspect of the CCA's approach to intellectual disability that is incompatible with the Eighth Amendment: the Briseno factors.
As the Court explains, no state legislature has approved the use of these or any similar factors.
Although the CCA reviewed these factors to determine whether Moore's adaptive deficits were "related" to his intellectual functioning, it may be that consideration of those factors tainted the whole of the CCA's adaptive functioning analysis.
I need not decide this question, however, because the CCA reached the issue of Moore's adaptive functioning only after concluding that he had failed to demonstrate intellectual functioning sufficiently low to warrant a finding of intellectual disability, regardless of his adaptive deficits or their relationship to his IQ.
Moore has not presented sufficient reason to upset that independent holding.
The Court concludes that the CCA's assessment of Moore's IQ scores is "irreconcilable with Hall."
Ante, at 10.
Not so.
Hall rejected a Florida rule that required a prisoner to present an IQ score of 70 or below to demonstrate intellectual disability, thereby barring consideration of the standard error of measurement (SEM) of an over-70 score.
But the CCA did not apply Florida's rule--or anything like it.
The court in fact began by taking account of the SEM, explaining that Moore's tested score of 74 led to an IQ range between 69 and 79.
The court went on to consider additional expert testimony about potential factors affecting that score.
Based on that evidence, the CCA discounted portions of the SEM-generated range and concluded that Moore's IQ did not lie in the relevant range for intellectual disability.
Hall provided no definitive guidance on this sort of approach: recognizing the inherent imprecision of IQ tests, but considering additional evidence to determine whether an SEM-generated range of scores accurately reflected a prisoner's actual IQ.1 Indeed, in its catalog of States that "ha[d] taken a position contrary to that of Florida," the Court in Hall included a State that granted trial courts discretion to draw "reasonable inferences" about IQ scores and, where appropriate, decline to consider the full range of the SEM.
572 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 15, 16) (quoting Pizzuto v. State, 146 Idaho 720, 729, 202 P. 3d 642, 651 (2008)).2 That is the approach the CCA took here.
If that approach was "contrary" to Florida's rule in Hall, I do not understand how Hall can be read to reject that approach today.
The Court's ruling on intellectual functioning turns solely on the fact that Moore's IQ range was 69 to 79 rather than 70 to 80.
See ante, at 11 ("Because the lower end of Moore's score range falls at or below 70, the CCA had to move on to consider Moore's adaptive functioning").
The CCA certainly did not "disregard" SEM in assessing Moore's IQ, and it explained why other factors led it to conclude that his actual score did not fall near the lower end of the SEM range.
Only by insisting on the absolute conformity to medical standards the Court disclaims can it find a violation of the Eighth Amendment based on that one-point difference.3 Ibid.
In concluding that the Eighth Amendment turns on the slightest numerical difference in IQ score, the Court today is just as wrong as the Florida Supreme Court was in Hall.
Today's decision is not compelled by Hall; it is an expansion of it.
Perhaps there are reasons to expand Hall's holding--to say that States must read IQ tests as rigidly encompassing the entire SEM range, regardless of any other evidentiary considerations, or to say that the reasons that the CCA gave for discounting the lower end of Moore's IQ range were improper.
But before holding that the Constitution demands either result, our precedent requires consulting state judgments on the matter to determine whether a national consensus has developed.
Moore has presented no argument as to such a consensus, and the majority does not claim that there is one.
Without looking to any such "objective evidence of contemporary values," Atkins, 536 U. S., at 312 (internal quotation marks omitted), there is a real danger that Eighth Amendment judgments will embody "merely the subjective views of individual Justices," Coker, 433 U. S., at 592 (plurality opinion).
As Justice Frankfurter cautioned, "[o]ne must be on guard against finding in personal disapproval a reflection of more or less prevailing condemnation."
Louisiana ex rel.
Francis v. Resweber, 329 U. S. 459, 471 (1947) (concurring opinion).
I respectfully dissent.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
The CCA is Texas' court of last resort in criminal cases.
See Tex.
Const., Art. 5, §5.
Footnote 2
Under Texas law, the CCA, not the court of first instance, is "the ultimate factfinder" in habeas corpus proceedings.
Ex parte Reed, 271 S. W. 3d 698, 727 (Tex.
Crim.
App.
2008); see Ex parte Moore, 470 S. W. 3d 481, 489 (Tex.
Crim.
App.
2015).
Footnote 3
The third element is not at issue here.
Footnote 4
The habeas court considered a seventh score (of 59 on a WAIS-IV test administered in 2013) elsewhere in its opinion, see App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
170a-172a, but did not include that score in the calculation of Moore's average IQ score, see id., at 170a.
Footnote 5
This relatedness requirement, the CCA noted, is retained in the DSM-5.
See 470 S. W. 3d, at 487, n. 5 (citing DSM-5, at 38).
Footnote 6
The seven "Briseno factors" are:
&TLRbull2;     "Did those who knew the person best during the developmental stage--his family, friends, teachers, employers, authorities--think he was mentally retarded at that time, and, if so, act in accordance with that determination?
&TLRbull2;     "Has the person formulated plans and carried them through or is his conduct impulsive?
&TLRbull2;     "Does his conduct show leadership or does it show that he is led around by others?
&TLRbull2;     "Is his conduct in response to external stimuli rational and appropriate, regardless of whether it is socially acceptable?
&TLRbull2;     "Does he respond coherently, rationally, and on point to oral or written questions or do his responses wander from subject to subject?
&TLRbull2;     "Can the person hide facts or lie effectively in his own or others' interests?
&TLRbull2;     "Putting aside any heinousness or gruesomeness surrounding the capital offense, did the commission of that offense require forethought, planning, and complex execution of purpose?"
Briseno, 135 S. W. 3d, at 8-9.
Footnote 7
The dissent suggests that Hall tacitly approved Idaho's approach to capital sentencing, which the dissent characterizes as "grant[ing] trial courts discretion to draw 'reasonable inferences' about IQ scores and, where appropriate, decline to consider the full range of the [standard error of measurement]."
Post, at 14-15 (quoting Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15) (quoting Pizzuto v. State, 146 Idaho 720, 729, 202 P. 3d 642, 651 (2008))).
We referred in Hall to Idaho's capital-sentencing scheme, however, only to note that the State had "passed legislation allowing a defendant to present additional evidence of intellectual disability even when an IQ test score is above 70."
572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15).
Footnote 8
The dissent suggests that disagreement exists about the precise role of adaptive strengths in the adaptive-functioning inquiry.
See post, at 11-12.
But even if clinicians would consider adaptive strengths alongside adaptive weaknesses within the same adaptive-skill domain, neither Texas nor the dissent identifies any clinical authority permitting the arbitrary offsetting of deficits against unconnected strengths in which the CCA engaged, see 470 S. W. 3d, at 520-526.
Footnote 9
As elsewhere in its opinion, the CCA, in its deployment of the Briseno factors, placed undue emphasis on adaptive strengths, see supra, at 12-13; 470 S. W. 3d, at 527, and regarded risk factors for intellectual disability as evidence of the absence of intellectual disability, see supra, at 13-14; 470 S. W. 3d, at 526-527.
Footnote 10
Given the Briseno factors' flaws, it is unsurprising that scholars and experts have long criticized the factors.
See, e.g., American Bar Assn., Evaluating Fairness and Accuracy in State Death Penalty Systems: The Texas Capital Punishment Assessment Report 395 (2013) ("The Briseno factors create an especially high risk that [an intellectually disabled defendant] will be executed because, in many ways, they contradict established methods for diagnosing [intellectual disability].")
; Blume, Johnson, & Seeds, Of Atkins and Men: Deviations from Clinical Definitions of Mental Retardation in Death Penalty Cases (footnote omitted), 18 Cornell J. L. & Pub.
Pol'y 689, 710-712 (2009) ("The Briseno factors present an array of divergences from the clinical definitions.")
; Macvaugh & Cunningham, Atkins v. Virginia: Implications and Recommendations for Forensic Practice, 37 J. Psychiatry & L. 131, 136 (2009) ("The seven criteria of the Briseno opinion operationalize an Atkins interpretation that [exempts only] a subcategory of persons with [intellectual disabilities] from execution.")
.
See also 470 S. W. 3d, at 529-530, and n. 5 (Alcala, J., dissenting) (summarizing, in this case, scholarly criticism of Briseno).
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
Hall also reached no holding as to the evaluation of IQ when an Atkins claimant presents multiple scores, noting only that "the analysis of multiple IQ scores jointly is a complicated endeavor."
Hall v. Flor- ida, 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 11).
The Court's definition of deficient intellectual functioning as shown by "an IQ score" of roughly 70, ante, at 4 (emphasis added), is dicta and cannot be read to call into question the approach of States that would not treat a single IQ score as dispositive evidence where the prisoner presented additional higher scores.
Footnote 2
The Court correctly notes that Hall cited Pizzuto as an instance of a State that had enacted "legislation allowing a defendant to present additional evidence of intellectual disability even when an IQ test score is above 70."
Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15).
The "additional evidence" that Pizzuto considered, however, was evidence that would indicate where within the SEM range a prisoner's IQ likely fell, 146 Idaho, at 729, 202 P. 3d, at 651--that is, the same sort of evidence that the CCA considered below.
Footnote 3
It is not obvious that clinicians would ignore evidence beyond the SEM in determining the appropriate range that an IQ score represents.
See, e.g., Macvaugh & Cunningham, Atkins v. Virginia: Implications and Recommendations for Forensic Practice, 37 J. Psychiatry & L. 131, 147 (2009) ("Error in intellectual assessment is not solely a function [of the SEM].
Other sources of error or assessment imprecision may involve the examinee . . . includ[ing] the mental and physical health, mood, effort, and motivation of the examinee during testing . . . ."); AAIDD-11, at 100-101 ("When considering the relative weight or degree of confidence given to any assessment instrument, the clinician needs to consider . . . the conditions under which the test(s) was/were given [and] the standard error of measurement").
NELSON v. COLORADO, (2017)
No. 15-1256
Argued: January 9, 2017    Decided: April 19, 2017
Petitioner Shannon Nelson was convicted by a Colorado jury of two felonies and three misdemeanors arising from the alleged sexual and physical abuse of her four children.
The trial court imposed a prison term of 20 years to life and ordered her to pay $8,192.50 in court costs, fees, and restitution.
On appeal, Nelson's conviction was reversed for trial error, and on retrial, she was acquitted of all charges.
Petitioner Louis Alonzo Madden was convicted by a Colorado jury of attempting to patronize a prostituted child and attempted sexual assault.
The trial court imposed an indeterminate prison sentence and ordered him to pay $4,413.00 in costs, fees, and restitution.
After one of Madden's convictions was reversed on direct review and the other vacated on postconviction review, the State elected not to appeal or retry the case.
The Colorado Department of Corrections withheld $702.10 from Nelson's inmate account between her conviction and acquittal, and Madden paid the State $1,977.75 after his conviction.
In both cases, the funds were allocated to costs, fees, and restitution.
Once their convictions were invalidated, both petitioners moved for return of the funds.
Nelson's trial court denied her motion outright, and Madden's postconviction court allowed a refund of costs and fees, but not restitution.
The Colorado Court of Appeals concluded that both petitioners were entitled to seek refunds of all they had paid, but the Colorado Supreme Court reversed.
It reasoned that Colorado's Compensation for Certain Exonerated Persons statute (Exoneration Act or Act), Colo.
Rev. Stat.
§§13-65-101, 13-65-102, 13-65-103, provided the exclusive authority for refunds and that, because neither Nelson nor Madden had filed a claim under that Act, the courts lacked authority to order refunds.
The Colorado Supreme Court also held that there was no due process problem under the Act, which permits Colorado to retain conviction-related assessments unless and until the prevailing defendant institutes a discrete civil proceeding and proves her innocence by clear and convincing evidence.
Held: The Exoneration Act's scheme does not comport with the Fourteenth Amendment's guarantee of due process.
Pp. 5-11.
(a) The procedural due process inspection required by Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U. S. 319, governs these cases.
Medina v. California, 505 U. S. 437, controls when state procedural rules that are part of the criminal process are at issue.
These cases, in contrast, concern the continuing deprivation of property after a conviction has been reversed or vacated, with no prospect of reprosecution.
Pp. 5-6.
(b) The three considerations balanced under Mathews--the private interest affected; the risk of erroneous deprivation of that interest through the procedures used; and the governmental interest at stake--weigh decisively against Colorado's scheme.
Pp. 6-10.
(1) Nelson and Madden have an obvious interest in regaining the money they paid to Colorado.
The State may not retain these funds simply because Nelson's and Madden's convictions were in place when the funds were taken, for once those convictions were erased, the presumption of innocence was restored.
See, e.g., Johnson v. Mississippi, 486 U. S. 578, 585.
And Colorado may not presume a person, adjudged guilty of no crime, nonetheless guilty enough for monetary exactions.
Pp. 6-8.
(2) Colorado's scheme creates an unacceptable risk of the erroneous deprivation of defendants' property.
The Exoneration Act conditions refund on defendants' proof of innocence by clear and convincing evidence, but defendants in petitioners' position are presumed innocent.
Moreover, the Act provides no remedy for assessments tied to invalid misdemeanor convictions.
And when, as here, the recoupment amount sought is not large, the cost of mounting a claim under the Act and retaining counsel to pursue it would be prohibitive.
Colorado argues that an Act that provides sufficient process to compensate a defendant for the loss of her liberty must suffice to compensate a defendant for the lesser deprivation of money.
But Nelson and Madden seek the return of their property, not compensation for its temporary deprivation.
Just as restoration of liberty on reversal of a conviction is not compensation, neither is the return of money taken by the State on account of the conviction.
Other procedures cited by Colorado--the need for probable cause to support criminal charges, the jury-trial right, and the State's burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt--do not address the risk faced by a defendant whose conviction has been overturned that she will not recover funds taken from her based solely on a conviction no longer valid.
Pp. 8-10.
(3) Colorado has no interest in withholding from Nelson and Madden money to which the State currently has zero claim of right.
The State has identified no equitable considerations favoring its position, nor indicated any way in which the Exoneration Act embodies such considerations.
P. 10.
362 P. 3d 1070 (first judgment) and 364 P. 3d 866 (second judgment), reversed and remanded.
Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.
Alito, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment.
Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion.
Gorsuch, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the cases.
Opinion of the Court
581 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 15-1256
SHANNON NELSON, PETITIONER v. COLORADO
LOUIS A. MADDEN, PETITIONER v. COLORADO
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of colorado
[April 19, 2017]
Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.
When a criminal conviction is invalidated by a reviewing court and no retrial will occur, is the State obliged to refund fees, court costs, and restitution exacted from the defendant upon, and as a consequence of, the conviction?
Our answer is yes.
Absent conviction of a crime, one is presumed innocent.
Under the Colorado law before us in these cases, however, the State retains conviction-related assessments unless and until the prevailing defendant institutes a discrete civil proceeding and proves her innocence by clear and convincing evidence.
This scheme, we hold, offends the Fourteenth Amendment's guarantee of due process.
I
A
Two cases are before us for review.
Petitioner Shannon Nelson, in 2006, was convicted by a Colorado jury of five counts--two felonies and three misdemeanors--arising from the alleged sexual and physical abuse of her four children.
362 P. 3d 1070, 1071 (Colo. 2015); App.
25-26.
The trial court imposed a prison sentence of 20 years to life and ordered Nelson to pay court costs, fees, and restitution totaling $8,192.50.
362 P. 3d, at 1071.
On appeal, Nelson's conviction was reversed for trial error.
Ibid.
On retrial, a new jury acquitted Nelson of all charges.
Ibid.
Petitioner Louis Alonzo Madden, in 2005, was convicted by a Colorado jury of attempting to patronize a prostituted child and attempted third-degree sexual assault by force.
See 364 P. 3d 866, 867 (Colo. 2015).
The trial court imposed an indeterminate prison sentence and ordered Madden to pay costs, fees, and restitution totaling $4,413.00.
Ibid.
The Colorado Supreme Court reversed one of Madden's convictions on direct review, and a postconviction court vacated the other.
Ibid.
The State elected not to appeal or retry the case.
Ibid.
Between Nelson's conviction and acquittal, the Colorado Department of Corrections withheld $702.10 from her inmate account, $287.50 of which went to costs and fees1 and $414.60 to restitution.
See 362 P. 3d, at 1071, and n. 1.
Following Madden's conviction, Madden paid Colorado $1,977.75, $1,220 of which went to costs and fees2 and $757.75 to restitution.
See 364 P. 3d, at 867.
The sole legal basis for these assessments was the fact of Nelson's and Madden's convictions.3 Absent those convictions, Colorado would have no legal right to exact and retain petitioners' funds.
Their convictions invalidated, both petitioners moved for return of the amounts Colorado had taken from them.
In Nelson's case, the trial court denied the motion outright.
362 P. 3d, at 1071.
In Madden's case, the postconviction court allowed the refund of costs and fees, but not restitution.
364 P. 3d, at 867-868.
The same Colorado Court of Appeals panel heard both cases and concluded that Nelson and Madden were entitled to seek refunds of all they had paid, including amounts allocated to restitution.
See People v. Nelson, 369 P. 3d 625, 628-629 (2013); People v. Madden, 2013 WL 1760869, *1 (Apr. 25, 2013).
Costs, fees, and restitution, the court held, must be "tied to a valid conviction," 369 P. 3d, at 627-628, absent which a court must "retur[n] the defendant to the status quo ante," 2013 WL 1760869, at *2.
The Colorado Supreme Court reversed in both cases.
A court must have statutory authority to issue a refund, that court stated.
362 P. 3d, at 1077; 364 P. 3d, at 868.
Colorado's Compensation for Certain Exonerated Persons statute (Exoneration Act or Act), Colo.
Rev. Stat.
§§13-65-101, 13-65-102, 13-65-103 (2016), passed in 2013, "provides the proper procedure for seeking a refund," the court ruled.
362 P. 3d, at 1075, 1077.
As no other statute addresses refunds, the court concluded that the Exoneration Act is the "exclusive process for exonerated defendants seeking a refund of costs, fees, and restitution."
Id., at 1078.4 Because neither Nelson nor Madden had filed a claim under the Act, the court further determined, their trial courts lacked authority to order a refund.
Id., at 1075, 1078; 364 P. 3d, at 867.5 There was no due process problem, the court continued, because the Act "provides sufficient process for defendants to seek refunds of costs, fees, and restitution that they paid in connection with their conviction."
362 P. 3d, at 1078.
Justice Hood dissented in both cases.
Because neither petitioner has been validly convicted, he explained, each must be presumed innocent.
Id., at 1079 (Nelson); 364 P. 3d, at 870 (adopting his reasoning from Nelson in Madden).
Due process therefore requires some mechanism "for the return of a defendant's money," Justice Hood maintained, 362 P. 3d, at 1080; as the Exoneration Act required petitioners to prove their innocence, the Act, he concluded, did not supply the remedy due process demands, id., at 1081.
We granted certiorari.
579 U. S. ___ (2016).
B
The Exoneration Act provides a civil claim for relief "to compensate an innocent person who was wrongly convicted."
362 P. 3d, at 1075.
Recovery under the Act is available only to a defendant who has served all or part of a term of incarceration pursuant to a felony conviction, and whose conviction has been overturned for reasons other than insufficiency of evidence or legal error unrelated to actual innocence.
See §13-65-102.
To succeed on an Exoneration Act claim, a petitioner must show, by clear and convincing evidence, her actual innocence of the offense of conviction.
§§13-65-101(1), 13-65-102(1).
A successful petitioner may recoup, in addition to compensation for time served,6 "any fine, penalty, court costs, or restitution . . . paid . . . as a result of his or her wrongful conviction."
Id., at 1075 (quoting §13-65-103(2)(e)(V)).
Under Colorado's legislation, as just recounted, a defendant must prove her innocence by clear and convincing evidence to obtain the refund of costs, fees, and restitution paid pursuant to an invalid conviction.
That scheme, we hold, does not comport with due process.
Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado.
II
The familiar procedural due process inspection instructed by Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U. S. 319 (1976), governs these cases.
Colorado argues that we should instead apply the standard from Medina v. California, 505 U. S. 437, 445 (1992), and inquire whether Nelson and Madden were exposed to a procedure offensive to a fundamental principle of justice.
Medina "provide[s] the appropriate framework for assessing the validity of state procedural rules" that "are part of the criminal process."
Id., at 443.
Such rules concern, for example, the allocation of burdens of proof and the type of evidence qualifying as admissible.7 These cases, in contrast, concern the continuing deprivation of property after a conviction has been reversed or vacated, with no prospect of reprosecution.
See Kaley v. United States, 571 U. S. ___, ___, n. 4 (2014) (Roberts, C. J., dissenting) (slip op., at 10-11, n. 4) (explaining the different offices of Mathews and Medina).
Because no further criminal process is implicated, Mathews "provides the relevant inquiry."
571 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11, n. 4).
III
Under the Mathews balancing test, a court evaluates (A) the private interest affected; (B) the risk of erroneous deprivation of that interest through the procedures used; and (C) the governmental interest at stake.
424 U. S., at 335.
All three considerations weigh decisively against Colorado's scheme.
A
Nelson and Madden have an obvious interest in regaining the money they paid to Colorado.
Colorado urges, however, that the funds belong to the State because Nelson's and Madden's convictions were in place when the funds were taken.
Tr.
of Oral Arg.
29-31.
But once those convictions were erased, the presumption of their innocence was restored.
See, e.g., Johnson v. Mississippi, 486 U. S. 578, 585 (1988) (After a "conviction has been reversed, unless and until [the defendant] should be retried, he must be presumed innocent of that charge.")
.8 "[A]xiomatic and elementary," the presumption of innocence "lies at the foundation of our criminal law."
Coffin v. United States, 156 U. S. 432, 453 (1895).9 Colorado may not retain funds taken from Nelson and Madden solely because of their now-invalidated convictions, see supra, at 2-3, and n. 3, for Colorado may not presume a person, adjudged guilty of no crime, nonetheless guilty enough for monetary exactions.10
That petitioners prevailed on subsequent review rather than in the first instance, moreover, should be inconsequential.
Suppose a trial judge grants a motion to set aside a guilty verdict for want of sufficient evidence.
In that event, the defendant pays no costs, fees, or restitution.
Now suppose the trial court enters judgment on a guilty verdict, ordering cost, fee, and restitution payments by reason of the conviction, but the appeals court upsets the conviction for evidentiary insufficiency.
By what right does the State retain the amount paid out by the defendant? "
[I]t should make no difference that the reviewing court, rather than the trial court, determined the evidence to be insufficient."
Burks v. United States, 437 U. S. 1, 11 (1978).
The vulnerability of the State's argument that it can keep the amounts exacted so long as it prevailed in the court of first instance is more apparent still if we assume a case in which the sole penalty is a fine.
On Colorado's reasoning, an appeal would leave the defendant emptyhanded; regardless of the outcome of an appeal, the State would have no refund obligation.
See Tr.
of Oral Arg.
41, 44.11
B
Is there a risk of erroneous deprivation of defendants' interest in return of their funds if, as Colorado urges, the Exoneration Act is the exclusive remedy?
Indeed yes, for the Act conditions refund on defendants' proof of innocence by clear and convincing evidence.
§13-65-101(1)(a).
But to get their money back, defendants should not be saddled with any proof burden.
Instead, as explained supra, at 6-7, they are entitled to be presumed innocent.
Furthermore, as Justice Hood noted in dissent, the Act provides no remedy at all for any assessments tied to invalid misdemeanor convictions (Nelson had three).
362 P. 3d, at 1081, n. 1; see §13-65-102(1)(a).
And when amounts a defendant seeks to recoup are not large, as is true in Nelson's and Madden's cases, see supra, at 2, the cost of mounting a claim under the Exoneration Act and retaining a lawyer to pursue it would be prohibitive.12
Colorado argued on brief that if the Exoneration Act provides sufficient process to compensate a defendant for the loss of her liberty, the Act should also suffice "when a defendant seeks compensation for the less significant deprivation of monetary assessments paid pursuant to a conviction that is later overturned."
Brief for Respondent 40.
The comparison is inapt.
Nelson and Madden seek restoration of funds they paid to the State, not compensation for temporary deprivation of those funds.
Petitioners seek only their money back, not interest on those funds for the period the funds were in the State's custody.
Just as the restoration of liberty on reversal of a conviction is not compensation, neither is the return of money taken by the State on account of the conviction.
Colorado also suggests that "numerous pre- and post-deprivation procedures"--including the need for probable cause to support criminal charges, the jury-trial right, and the State's burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt--adequately minimize the risk of erroneous deprivation of property.
Id., at 31; see id., at 31-35.
But Colorado misperceives the risk at issue.
The risk here involved is not the risk of wrongful or invalid conviction any criminal defendant may face.
It is, instead, the risk faced by a defendant whose conviction has already been overturned that she will not recover funds taken from her solely on the basis of a conviction no longer valid.
None of the above-stated procedures addresses that risk, and, as just explained, the Exoneration Act is not an adequate remedy for the property deprivation Nelson and Madden experienced.13
C
Colorado has no interest in withholding from Nelson and Madden money to which the State currently has zero claim of right.
"Equitable [c]onsiderations," Colorado suggests, may bear on whether a State may withhold funds from criminal defendants after their convictions are overturned.
Brief for Respondent 20-22.
Colorado, however, has identified no such consideration relevant to petitioners' cases, nor has the State indicated any way in which the Exoneration Act embodies "equitable considerations."
IV
Colorado's scheme fails due process measurement because defendants' interest in regaining their funds is high, the risk of erroneous deprivation of those funds under the Exoneration Act is unacceptable, and the State has shown no countervailing interests in retaining the amounts in question.
To comport with due process, a State may not impose anything more than minimal procedures on the refund of exactions dependent upon a conviction subsequently invalidated.
*??*??*
The judgments of the Colorado Supreme Court are reversed, and the cases are remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
Justice Gorsuch took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.
Alito, J., concurring in judgment
581 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 15-1256
SHANNON NELSON, PETITIONER v. COLORADO
LOUIS A. MADDEN, PETITIONER v. COLORADO
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of colorado
[April 19, 2017]
Justice Alito, concurring in the judgment.
I agree that the judgments of the Colorado Supreme Court must be reversed, but I reach that conclusion by a different route.
I
The proper framework for analyzing these cases is provided by Medina v. California, 505 U. S. 437 (1992).
Medina applies when we are called upon to "asses[s] the validity of state procedural rules which . . . are part of the criminal process," id., at 443, and that is precisely the situation here.
These cases concern Colorado's rules for determining whether a defendant can obtain a refund of money that he or she was required to pay pursuant to a judgment of conviction that is later reversed.
In holding that these payments must be refunded, the Court relies on a feature of the criminal law, the presumption of innocence.
And since the Court demands that refunds occur either automatically or at least without imposing anything more than "minimal" procedures, see ante, at 10, it appears that they must generally occur as part of the criminal case.
For these reasons, the refund obligation is surely "part of the criminal process" and thus falls squarely within the scope of Medina.
The only authority cited by the Court in support of its contrary conclusion is a footnote in a dissent.
See ante, at 6 (citing Kaley v. United States, 571 U. S. ___, ___, n. 4 (2014) (opinion of Roberts, C. J.) (slip op., at 10-11, n. 4)).
Under Medina, a state rule of criminal procedure not governed by a specific rule set out in the Bill of Rights violates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment only if it offends a fundamental and deeply rooted principle of justice.
505 U. S., at 445.
And "[h]istorical practice is probative of whether a procedural rule can be characterized as fundamental."
Id., at 446.
Indeed, petitioners invite us to measure the Colorado scheme against traditional practice, reminding us that our " 'first due process cases' " recognized that " 'traditional practice provides a touchstone for constitutional analysis,' " Brief for Petitioners 26 (quoting Honda Motor Co. v. Oberg, 512 U. S. 415, 430 (1994)).
Petitioners then go on to argue at some length that "[t]he traditional rule has always been that when a judgment is reversed, a person who paid money pursuant to that judgment is entitled to receive the money back."
Brief for Petitioners 26; see id., at 26-30.
See also Brief for National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as Amicus Curiae 4-14 (discussing traditional practice).
The Court, by contrast, turns its back on historical practice, preferring to balance the competing interests according to its own lights.
The Court applies the balancing test set out in Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U. S. 319 (1976), a modern invention "first conceived" to decide what procedures the government must observe before depriving persons of novel forms of property such as welfare or Social Security disability benefits.
Dusenbery v. United States, 534 U. S. 161, 167 (2002).
Because these interests had not previously been regarded as "property," the Court could not draw on historical practice for guidance.
Mathews has subsequently been used more widely in civil cases, but we should pause before applying its balancing test in matters of state criminal procedure. "
[T]he States have considerable expertise in matters of criminal procedure and the criminal process is grounded in centuries of common-law tradition."
Medina, supra, at 445-446.
Applying the Mathews balancing test to established rules of criminal practice and procedure may result in "undue interference with both considered legislative judgments and the careful balance that the Constitution strikes between liberty and order."
Medina, supra, at 443.
Where long practice has struck a particular balance between the competing interests of the State and those charged with crimes, we should not lightly disturb that determination.
For these reasons, Medina's historical inquiry, not Mathews, provides the proper framework for use in these cases.1
II
Under Medina, the Colorado scheme at issue violates due process.
American law has long recognized that when an individual is obligated by a civil judgment to pay money to the opposing party and that judgment is later reversed, the money should generally be repaid.
See, e.g., Northwestern Fuel Co. v. Brock, 139 U. S. 216, 219 (1891) ("The right of restitution of what one has lost by the enforcement of a judgment subsequently reversed has been recognized in the law of England from a very early period . . . "); Bank of United States v. Bank of Washington, 6 Pet.
8, 17 (1832) ("On the reversal of an erroneous judgment, the law raises an obligation in the party to the record, who has received the benefit of the erroneous judgment, to make restitution to the other party for what he has lost").
This was "a remedy well known at common law," memorialized as "a part of the judgment of reversal which directed 'that the defendant be restored to all things which he has lost on occasion of the judgment aforesaid.' "
2 Ruling Case Law §248, p. 297 (W. McKinney and B. Rich eds.
1914); Duncan v. Kirkpatrick, 13 Serg.
& Rawle 292, 294 (Pa. 1825).
As both parties acknowledge, this practice carried over to criminal cases.
When a conviction was reversed, defendants could recover fines and monetary penalties assessed as part of the conviction.
Brief for Respondent 20-21, and n. 7; Reply Brief 7-8, 11; see, e.g., Annot., Right To Recover Back Fine or Penalty Paid in Criminal Proceeding, 26 A. L. R. 1523, 1532, §VI(a) (1923) ("When a judgment imposing a fine, which is paid, is vacated or reversed on appeal, the court may order restitution of the amount paid . . . "); 25 C. J. §39, p. 1165 (W. Mack, W. Hale, & D. Kiser eds.
1921) ("Where a fine illegally imposed has been paid, on reversal of the judgment a writ of restitution may issue against the parties who received the fine").
The rule regarding recovery, however, "even though general in its application, [was] not without exceptions."
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Florida, 295 U. S. 301, 309 (1935) (Cardozo, J.).
The remedy was "equitable in origin and function," and return of the money was " 'not of mere right,' " but " 'rest[ed] in the exercise of a sound discretion.' "
Id., at 309, 310 (quoting Gould v. McFall, 118 Pa. 455, 456 (1888)).
This was true in both civil and criminal cases.
See, e.g., 25 C. J., at 1165 (noting that "restitution [of fines paid on a conviction later reversed] is not necessarily a matter of right"); Annot., 26 A. L. R., at 1532, §VI(a) (Restitution for fines upon reversal of a conviction "is not a matter of strict legal right, but rather one for the exercise of the court's discretion").
The central question courts have asked is whether "the possessor will give offense to equity and good conscience if permitted to retain [the successful appellant's money]."
Atlantic Coast Line, supra, at 309.
This history supports the Court's rejection of the Colorado Exoneration Act's procedures.
The Act places a heavy burden of proof on defendants, provides no opportunity for a refund for defendants (like Nelson) whose misdemeanor convictions are reversed, and excludes defendants whose convictions are reversed for reasons unrelated to innocence.
Brief for Respondent 8, 35, n. 18.
These stringent requirements all but guarantee that most defendants whose convictions are reversed have no realistic opportunity to prove they are deserving of refunds.
Colorado has abandoned historical procedures that were more generous to successful appellants and incorporated a court's case-specific equitable judgment.
Instead, Colorado has adopted a system that is harsh, inflexible, and prevents most defendants whose convictions are reversed from demonstrating entitlement to a refund.
Indeed, the Colorado General Assembly made financial projections based on the assumption that only one person every five years would qualify for a financial award under the Exoneration Act.
Colorado Legislative Council Staff Fiscal Note, State and Local Revised Fiscal Impact, HB 13-1230, p. 2 (Apr. 22, 2013), online at http://leg.colorado.gov (as last visited Apr. 17, 2017).
Accordingly, the Exoneration Act does not satisfy due process requirements.
See Cooper v. Oklahoma, 517 U. S. 348, 356 (1996) (A state rule of criminal procedure may violate due process where "a rule significantly more favorable to the defendant has had a long and consistent application").
III
Although long-established practice supports the Court's judgment, the Court rests its decision on different grounds.
In its Mathews analysis, the Court reasons that the reversal of petitioners' convictions restored the presumption of their innocence and that "Colorado may not presume a person, adjudged guilty of no crime, nonetheless guilty enough for monetary exactions."
Ante, at 7.
The implication of this brief statement is that under Mathews, reversal restores the defendant to the status quo ante, see ante, at 3.
But the Court does not confront the obvious implications of this reasoning.
For example, if the status quo ante must be restored, why shouldn't the defendant be compensated for all the adverse economic consequences of the wrongful conviction?
2 After all, in most cases, the fines and payments that a convicted defendant must pay to the court are minor in comparison to the losses that result from conviction and imprisonment, such as attorney's fees, lost income, and damage to reputation.
The Court cannot convincingly explain why Mathews' amorphous balancing test stops short of requiring a full return to the status quo ante when a conviction is reversed.
But Medina does.
The American legal system has long treated compensation for the economic consequences of a reversed conviction very differently from the refund of fines and other payments made by a defendant pursuant to a criminal judgment.
Statutes providing compensation for time wrongfully spent in prison are a 20th-century innovation: By 1970, only the Federal Government and four States had passed such laws.
King, Compensation of Persons Erroneously Confined by the State, 118 U. Pa.
L. Rev. 1091, 1109 (1970); United States v. Keegan, 71 F. Supp.
623, 626 (SDNY 1947) ("[T]here seems to have been no legislation by our Government on this subject" until 1938).
Many other jurisdictions have done so since, but under most such laws, compensation is not automatic.
Instead, the defendant bears the burden of proving actual innocence (and, sometimes, more).
King, supra, at 1110 ("The burden of proving innocence in the compensation proceeding has from the start been placed upon the claimant"); see also Kahn, Presumed Guilty Until Proven Innocent: The Burden of Proof in Wrongful Conviction Claims Under State Compensation Statutes, 44 U. Mich.
J. L. Reform 123, 145 (2010) (Most U. S. compensation statutes "require that claimants prove their innocence either by a preponderance of the evidence or by clear and convincing evidence" (footnote omitted)).
In construing the federal statute, courts have held that a compensation proceeding "is not . . . a criminal trial" and that the burden of proof can be placed on the petitioner.
United States v. Brunner, 200 F. 2d 276, 279 (CA6 1952).
As noted, Colorado and many other States have similar statutes designed narrowly to compensate those few persons who can demonstrate that they are truly innocent.
The Court apparently acknowledges that these statutes pose no constitutional difficulty.
That is the correct conclusion, but it is best justified by reference to history and tradition.
IV
The Court's disregard of historical practice is particularly damaging when it comes to the question of restitution.
The Court flatly declares that the State is "obliged to refund . . . restitution" in just the same way as fees and court costs.
Ante, at 1.
This conclusion is not supported by historical practice, and it overlooks important differences between restitution, which is paid to the victims of an offense, and fines and other payments that are kept by the State.
Although restitution may be included in a criminal judgment, it has many attributes of a civil judgment in favor of the victim.
This is clear under Colorado law.
Although the obligation to pay restitution is included in the defendant's sentence, restitution results in a final civil judgment against the defendant in favor of the State and the victim.
Colo.
Rev. Stat.
§18-1.3-603(4)(a)(I) (2016).
Entitlement to restitution need not be established beyond a reasonable doubt or in accordance with standard rules of evidence or criminal procedure.
People v. Pagan, 165 P. 3d 724, 729 (Colo.
App.
2006); Colo.
Rev. Stat.
§§18-1.3-603(2)-(3).
And the judgment may be enforced either by the State or the victim.
§§16-18.5-106(2), §§16-18.5-107(1)-(4).
The Court ignores the distinctive attributes of restitution, but they merit attention.
Because a restitution order is much like a civil judgment, the reversal of the defendant's criminal conviction does not necessarily undermine the basis for restitution.
Suppose that a victim successfully sues a criminal defendant civilly and introduces the defendant's criminal conviction on the underlying conduct as (potentially preclusive) evidence establishing an essential element of a civil claim.
See, e.g., 2 K. Broun, McCormick on Evidence §298, 473-477 (7th ed.
2013) (discussing the admissibility, and potential preclusive effect, of a criminal conviction in subsequent civil litigation).
And suppose that the defendant's criminal conviction is later reversed for a trial error that did not (and could not) infect the later civil proceeding: for example, the admission of evidence barred by the exclusionary rule or a Confrontation Clause violation.
It would be unprecedented to suggest that due process requires unwinding the civil judgment simply because it rests in part on a criminal conviction that has since been reversed.
And a very similar scenario could unfold with respect to a Colorado restitution judgment.
The only salient difference would be that, in the Colorado case, the civil judgment would have been obtained as part of the criminal proceeding itself.
It is not clear (and the Court certainly does not explain) why that formal distinction should make a substantive difference.3
It is especially startling to insist that a State must provide a refund after enforcing a restitution judgment on the victims' behalf in reliance on a final judgment that is then vacated on collateral review.
Faced with this fact pattern, the Ninth Circuit declined to require reimbursement, reasoning that the Government was a mere "escrow agent" executing a then-valid final judgment in favor of a third party.
United States v. Hayes, 385 F. 3d 1226, 1230 (2004).
The Court regrettably mentions none of this.
Its treatment of restitution is not grounded in any historical analysis, and--save for a brief footnote, ante, at 2-3, n. 3--the Court does not account for the distinctive civil status of restitution under Colorado law (or the laws of the many other affected jurisdictions that provide this remedy to crime victims).
Nor does the Court consider how restitution's unique characteristics might affect the balance that it strikes under Mathews.
Ante, at 10.
The Court summarily rejects the proposition that " 'equitable considerations' " might militate against a blanket rule requiring the refund of money paid as restitution, see ibid., but why is this so?
What if the evidence amply establishes that the defendant injured the victims to whom restitution was paid but the defendant's conviction is reversed on a ground that would be inapplicable in a civil suit?
In that situation, is it true, as the Court proclaims, that the State would have "no interest" in withholding a refund?
Would the Court reach that conclusion if state law mandated a refund from the recipients of the restitution?
And if the States and the Federal Government are always required to foot the bill themselves, would that risk discourage them from seeking restitution--or at least from providing funds to victims until the conclusion of appellate review?
It was unnecessary for the Court to issue a sweeping pronouncement on restitution.
But if the Court had to address this subject to dispose of these cases, it should have acknowledged that--at least in some circumstances--refunds of restitution payments made under later reversed judgments are not constitutionally required.
*??*??*
For these reasons, I concur only in the judgment.
Thomas, J., dissenting
581 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 15-1256
SHANNON NELSON, PETITIONER v. COLORADO
LOUIS A. MADDEN, PETITIONER v. COLORADO
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of colorado
[April 19, 2017]
Justice Thomas, dissenting.
The majority and concurring opinions debate whether the procedural due process framework of Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U. S. 319 (1976), or that of Medina v. California, 505 U. S. 437 (1992), governs the question before us.
But both opinions bypass the most important question in these cases: whether petitioners can show a substantive entitlement to a return of the money they paid pursuant to criminal convictions that were later reversed or vacated.
The Court assumes, without reference to either state or federal law, that defendants whose convictions have been reversed have a substantive right to any money exacted on the basis of those convictions.
By doing so, the Court assumes away the real issue in these cases.
As the parties have agreed, the existence of Colorado's obligation to provide particular procedures depends on whether petitioners have a substantive entitlement to the money.
Colorado concedes that "if [petitioners] have a present entitlement" to the money--that is, if "it is their prop-erty"--"then due process requires [the State to accord] them some procedure to get it back."
Tr.
of Oral Arg.
52.
And Colorado acknowledges that the procedural hurdles it could impose before returning the money "would be fairly minimal," id., at 51, because petitioners would need to prove only that their convictions had been reversed and that they had paid a certain sum of money, see ibid.
Similarly, petitioners concede that if defendants in their position do not have a substantive right to recover the money--that is, if the money belongs to the State--then Colorado need not "provide any procedure to give it back."
Id., at 53.
If defendants in their position have no entitlement to the money they paid pursuant to their reversed convictions, there would be nothing to adjudicate.
In light of these concessions, I can see no justification for the Court's decision to address the procedures for adjudicating a substantive entitlement while failing to determine whether a substantive entitlement exists in the first place.
In my view, petitioners have not demonstrated that defendants whose convictions have been reversed possess a substantive entitlement, under either state law or the Constitution, to recover money they paid to the State pursuant to their convictions.
Accordingly, I cannot agree with the Court's decision to reverse the judgments of the Colorado Supreme Court.
I
The Fourteenth Amendment provides that no State shall "deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law."
U. S. Const., Amdt.
14, §1 (emphasis added).1 To show that Colorado has violated the Constitution's procedural guarantees, as relevant here, petitioners must first establish that they have been deprived of a protected property interest.
See Castle Rock v. Gonzales, 545 U. S. 748, 756 (2005) ("The procedural component of the Due Process Clause does not protect everything that might be described as a benefit: To have a property interest in a benefit, a person clearly must have . . . a legitimate claim of entitlement to it" (internal quotation marks omitted)).
"Because the Constitution protects rather than creates property interests, the existence of a property interest is determined by reference to 'existing rules or understandings that stem from an independent source such as state law.' "
Phillips v. Washington Legal Foundation, 524 U. S. 156, 164 (1998) (quoting Board of Regents of State Colleges v. Roth, 408 U. S. 564, 577 (1972)).
Petitioners undoubtedly have an "interest in regaining the money they paid to Colorado."
Ante, at 6.
But to succeed on their procedural due process claim, petitioners must first point to a recognized property interest in that money, under state or federal law, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
A
The parties dispute whether, under Colorado law, the petitioners or the State have a property interest in the money paid by petitioners pursuant to their convictions.
Petitioners contend that the money remains their property under state law.
Reply Brief 1-3; see also Tr.
of Oral Arg.
52-54.
Colorado counters that when petitioners paid the money pursuant to their convictions, the costs and fees became property of the State and the restitution became property of the victims.
See id., at 28-30; Brief for Respondent 41.
The key premise of the Colorado Supreme Court's holdings in these cases is that moneys lawfully exacted pursuant to a valid conviction become public funds (or the victims' money) under Colorado law.
The Colorado Supreme Court explained in petitioner Shannon Nelson's case that "the trial court properly ordered [her] to pay costs, fees, and restitution pursuant to valid statutes" and that "the court correctly distributed th[ose] funds to victims and public funds, as ordered by the statutes."
362 P. 3d 1070, 1076 (2015) (emphasis added); accord, 364 P. 3d 866, 868-870 (2016) (applying the same analysis to petitioner Louis Madden's case).
The Colorado Supreme Court further noted that, "[o]nce the state disburses restitution to the victims, the state no longer controls that money."
362 P. 3d, at 1077, n. 4.
The Colorado Supreme Court explained that "Colorado's constitution protects" the Colorado Legislature's "control over public money," and thus a "court may authorize refunds from public funds only pursuant to statutory authority."
Id., at 1076-1077.
The Exoneration Act, the Colorado Supreme Court held, provides the only statutory authority for refunding costs, fees, and restitution when a defendant's conviction is overturned.
Id., at 1077-1078.
Because petitioners had not sought a refund under the Exoneration Act, "the trial court lacked the authority to order a refund of Nelson's costs, fees, and restitution."
Id., at 1078; 364 P. 3d, at 867.
At no point in this litigation have petitioners attempted to demonstrate that they satisfy the requirements of the Exoneration Act.
Under the Act, Colorado recognizes a substantive entitlement to the kind of property at issue in these cases only if, among other things, the defendant can prove that he is "actually innocent.
"2 Colo.
Rev. Stat.
§§13-65-101, 13-65-102 (2016).
It is the Exoneration Act alone which defines the scope of the substantive entitlement.
This Court has interpreted the Due Process Clause to require that the States provide certain procedures, such as notice and a hearing, by which an individual can prove a substantive entitlement to (or defend against a deprivation of ) property.
But the Clause, properly understood, has nothing to say about the existence or scope of the substantive entitlement itself.
See Part I-B, infra.
If petitioners want this Court to rewrite the contours of the substantive entitlement contained in the Exoneration Act, they err in invoking procedural due process.
See Reply Brief 1-2 ("Our argument sounds in procedural due process").
The majority responds by asserting, without citing any state law, that Colorado "had no legal right to retain [petitioners'] money" once their convictions were invalidated.
Ante, at 8, n. 11.
If this were true as a matter of state law, then certain provisions of the Exoneration Act--which require the State to return costs, fees, and restitution only in limited circumstances following a conviction's reversal--would be superfluous.
Thus, to the extent the majority implicitly suggests that petitioners have a state-law right to an automatic refund (a point about which the majority is entirely unclear), it is plainly incorrect.
B
Because defendants in petitioners' position do not have a substantive right to recover the money they paid to Colorado under state law, petitioners' asserted right to an automatic refund must arise, if at all, from the Due Process Clause itself.
But the Due Process Clause confers no substantive rights.
McDonald v. Chicago, 561 U. S. 742, 811 (2010) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) ("The notion that a constitutional provision that guarantees only 'process' before a person is deprived of life, liberty, or property could define the substance of those rights strains credulity for even the most casual user of words").
And, in any event, petitioners appear to disavow any substantive due process right to a return of the funds they paid.
See Reply Brief 1-2; Tr.
of Oral Arg.
18-19.
In the absence of any property right under state law (apart from the right provided by the Exoneration Act, which petitioners decline to invoke), Colorado's refusal to return the money is not a "depriv[ation]" of "property" within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Colorado is therefore not required to provide any process at all for the return of that money.
II
No one disputes that if petitioners had never been convicted, Colorado could not have required them to pay the money at issue.
And no one disputes that Colorado cannot require petitioners to pay any additional costs, fees, or restitution now that their convictions have been invalidated.
It does not follow, however, that petitioners have a property right in the money they paid pursuant to their then-valid convictions, which now belongs to the State and the victims under Colorado law.
The Court today announces that petitioners have a right to an automatic refund because the State has "no legal right" to that money.
Ante, at 8, n. 11.
But, intuitive and rhetorical appeal aside, it does not seriously attempt to ground that conclusion in state or federal law.
If petitioners' supposed right to an automatic refund arises under Colorado law, then the Colorado Supreme Court remains free on remand to clarify whether that right in fact exists.
If it arises under substantive due process, then the Court's procedural due process analysis misses the point.
I respectfully dissent.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
Together with Madden v. Colorado, also on certiorari to the same court (see this Court's Rule 12.4).
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
Of the $287.50 for costs and fees, $125 went to the victim compensation fund and $162.50 to the victims and witnesses assistance and law enforcement fund (VAST fund).
See 362 P. 3d 1070, 1071, n. 1 (Colo. 2015).
Footnote 2
Of the $1,220 for costs and fees, $125 went to the victim compensation fund and $1,095 to the VAST fund ($1,000 of which was for the special advocate surcharge).
See App.
79; 364 P. 3d 866, 869 (Colo. 2015).
Footnote 3
See Colo.
Rev. Stat.
§24-4.1-119(1)(a) (2005) (levying victim-compensation-fund fees for "each criminal action resulting in a conviction or in a deferred judgment and sentence"); §24-4.2-104(1)(a)(1)(I) (2005) (same, for VAST fund fees); §24-4.2-104(1)(a)(1)(II) (same, for special advocate surcharge); §18-1.3-603(1) (2005) (with one exception, "[e]very order of conviction . . . shall include consideration of restitution").
See also 362 P. 3d, at 1073 ("[T]he State pays the cost of criminal cases when a defendant is acquitted."
(citing Colo.
Rev. Stat.
§16-18-101(1) (2015))).
Under Colorado law, a restitution order tied to a criminal conviction is rendered as a separate civil judgment.
See §18-1.3-603(4)(a) (2005).
If the conviction is reversed, any restitution order dependent on that conviction is simultaneously vacated.
See People v. Scearce, 87 P. 3d 228, 234-235 (Colo.
App.
2003).
Footnote 4
While these cases were pending in this Court, Colorado passed new legislation to provide "[r]eimbursement of amounts paid following a vacated conviction."
See Colo.
House Bill 17-1071 (quoting language for Colo.
Rev. Stat.
§18-1.3-703, the new provision).
That legislation takes effect September 1, 2017, and has no effect on the cases before us.
Footnote 5
Prior to the Exoneration Act, the Colorado Supreme Court recognized the competence of courts, upon reversal of a conviction, to order the refund of monetary exactions imposed on a defendant solely by reason of the conviction.
Toland v. Strohl, 147 Colo. 577, 586, 364 P. 2d 588, 593 (1961).
Footnote 6
Compensation under the Exoneration Act includes $70,000 per year of incarceration for the wrongful conviction; additional sums per year served while the defendant is under a sentence of death, or placed on parole or probation or on a sex offender registry; compensation for child support payments due during incarceration; tuition waivers at state institutions of higher education for the exonerated person and for any children conceived or legally adopted before the incarceration; and reasonable attorney's fees for bringing an Exoneration Act claim.
§13-65-103(2), (3) (2016).
Footnote 7
See Cooper v. Oklahoma, 517 U. S. 348, 356-362 (1996) (standard of proof to establish incompetence to stand trial); Dowling v. United States, 493 U. S. 342, 343-344, 352 (1990) (admissibility of testimony about a prior crime of which the defendant was acquitted); Patterson v. New York, 432 U. S. 197, 198, 201-202 (1977) (burden of proving affirmative defense); Medina v. California, 505 U. S. 437, 443-446, 457 (1992) (burden of proving incompetence to stand trial).
Footnote 8
Citing Bell v. Wolfish, 441 U. S. 520 (1979), Colorado asserts that "[t]he presumption of innocence applies only at criminal trials" and thus has no application here.
Brief for Respondent 40, n. 19.
Colorado misapprehends Wolfish.
Our opinion in that case recognized that "under the Due Process Clause," a detainee who "has not been adjudged guilty of any crime" may not be punished.
441 U. S., at 535-536; see id., at 535-540.
Wolfish held only that the presumption does not prevent the government from "detain[ing a defendant] to ensure his presence at trial . . . so long as [the] conditions and restrictions [of his detention] do not amount to punishment, or otherwise violate the Constitution."
Id., at 536-537.
Footnote 9
Were Medina applicable, Colorado's Exoneration Act scheme would similarly fail due process measurement.
Under Medina, a criminal procedure violates due process if "it offends some principle of justice so rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people as to be ranked as fundamental."
505 U. S., at 445 (quoting Patterson, 432 U. S., at 202).
The presumption of innocence unquestionably fits that bill.
Footnote 10
Colorado invites a distinction between convictions merely "voidable," rather than "void," and urges that the invalidated convictions here fall in the voidable category.
See Brief for Respondent 32-33, and n. 11.
As Justice Hood noted in dissent, however, "reversal is reversal," regardless of the reason, "[a]nd an invalid conviction is no conviction at all."
362 P. 3d, at 1080.
Footnote 11
The dissent echoes Colorado's argument.
If Nelson and Madden prevailed at trial, the dissent agrees, no costs, fees, or restitution could be exacted.
See post, at 6.
But if they prevailed on appellate inspection, the State gets to keep their money.
See ibid.
Under Colorado law, as the dissent reads the Colorado Supreme Court's opinion, "moneys lawfully exacted pursuant to a valid conviction become public funds (or[, in the case of restitution,] the victims' money)."
Post, at 3-4.
Shut from the dissent's sights, however, the convictions pursuant to which the State took petitioners' money were invalid, hence the State had no legal right to retain their money.
Given the invalidity of the convictions, does the Exoneration Act afford sufficient process to enable the State to retain the money?
Surely, it does not.
Footnote 12
A successful petitioner under the Exoneration Act can recover reasonable attorney's fees, §13-65-103(2)(e)(IV), but neither a defendant nor counsel is likely to assume the risk of loss when amounts to be gained are not worth the candle.
Footnote 13
Colorado additionally argues that defendants can request a stay of sentence pending appeal, thereby reducing the risk of erroneous deprivation.
See Brief for Respondent 32; §§16-12-103, 18-1.3-702(1)(a) (2016).
But the State acknowledged at oral argument that few defendants can meet the requirements a stay pending appeal entails.
Tr.
of Oral Arg.
33-34.
And even when a stay is available, a trial court "may require the defendant to deposit the whole or any part of the . . . costs."
Colo.
App.
Rule 8.1(a)(3) (2016).
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
In a footnote, the Court briefly opines on how a Medina analysis would come out in these cases.
The Court's discussion of the issue, which is dictum, is substantially incomplete.
The Court suggests that Medina would support its judgment because the presumption of innocence is deeply rooted and fundamental.
Ante, at 7, n. 9.
It is true, of course, that this presumption is restored when a conviction is reversed.
But that says very little about the question at hand: namely, what must happen once that presumption is restored.
Notably, the Court cites not a single case applying the presumption of innocence in the refund context.
At the same time, the Court ignores cases that bear directly on the question in these cases and thus must be part of a proper Medina inquiry.
See infra, at this page and 4-5.
Footnote 2
The Court's position is also at odds with other principles of our procedural due process jurisprudence.
It is well settled, for example, that a plaintiff who is deprived of property with inadequate process is not entitled to be compensated if the defendant can prove the deprivation "would have occurred even if [the plaintiff] had been given due process."
Thompson v. District of Columbia, 832 F. 3d 339, 346 (CADC 2016); see Carey v. Piphus, 435 U. S. 247, 260, 263 (1978).
This principle is in obvious tension with the Court's holding.
Footnote 3
The Court cites one intermediate appellate case for the proposition that when a conviction is reversed, any restitution order dependent on that conviction is simultaneously vacated.
Ante, at 2-3, n. 3 (citing People v. Scearce, 87 P. 3d 228 (Colo.
App.
2003)).
Scearce did not discuss whether any payments had been made to victims or--if so--whether they would be recoverable from the State.
More important, Scearce is hardly the last word on the question whether due process invariably requires the refund of restitution.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
As I have previously observed, the Due Process Clause may have originally been understood to require only "that our Government . . . proceed according to the 'law of the land'--that is, according to written constitutional and statutory provisions"--before depriving someone of life, liberty, or property.
Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 17) (quoting Hamdi v. Rumsfeld, 542 U. S. 507, 589 (2004) (Thomas, J., dissenting)).
Because Colorado does not advance that argument, and because it is unnecessary to resolve the issue in these cases.
I assume that the Due Process Clause requires some baseline procedures regardless of the provisions of Colorado law.
Footnote 2
More specifically, the Exoneration Act entitles an exonerated defendant to compensation if he was convicted of a felony, was incarcerated, and, among other requirements, can prove by clear and convincing evidence that he is "actually innocent," meaning that his "conviction was the result of a miscarriage of justice" or that he is factually innocent.
Colo.
Rev. Stat.
§§13-65-101(1)(a), 13-65-102(1)(a) (2016); see Nelson, 362 P. 3d, at 1075.
"Insufficiency of the evidence or a legal error unrelated to the person's actual innocence cannot support either exoneration or subsequent compensation under the Act."
Ibid.
PACKINGHAM v. NORTH CAROLINA, (2017)
No. 15-1194
Argued: February 27, 2017    Decided: June 19, 2017
North Carolina law makes it a felony for a registered sex offender "to access a commercial social networking Web site where the sex offender knows that the site permits minor children to become members or to create or maintain personal Web pages."
N. C. Gen. Stat.
Ann.
§§14-202.5(a), (e).
According to sources cited to the Court, the State has prosecuted over 1,000 people for violating this law, including petitioner, who was indicted after posting a statement on his personal Facebook profile about a positive experience in traffic court.
The trial court denied petitioner's motion to dismiss the indictment on the ground that the law violated the First Amendment.
He was convicted and given a suspended prison sentence.
On appeal, the State Court of Appeals struck down §14-202.5 on First Amendment grounds, but the State Supreme Court reversed.
Held: The North Carolina statute impermissibly restricts lawful speech in violation of the First Amendment.
Pp. 4-10.
(a) A fundamental First Amendment principle is that all persons have access to places where they can speak and listen, and then, after reflection, speak and listen once more.
Today, one of the most important places to exchange views is cyberspace, particularly social media, which offers "relatively unlimited, low-cost capacity for communication of all kinds," Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 U. S. 844, 870, to users engaged in a wide array of protected First Amendment activity on any number of diverse topics.
The Internet's forces and directions are so new, so protean, and so far reaching that courts must be conscious that what they say today may be obsolete tomorrow.
Here, in one of the first cases the Court has taken to address the relationship between the First Amendment and the modern Internet, the Court must exercise extreme caution before suggesting that the First Amendment provides scant protection for access to vast networks in that medium.
Pp. 4-6.
(b) This background informs the analysis of the statute at issue.
Even assuming that the statute is content neutral and thus subject to intermediate scrutiny, the provision is not " ' "narrowly tailored to serve a significant governmental interest." ' "
McCullen v. Coakley, 573 U. S. ___, ___.
Like other inventions heralded as advances in human progress, the Internet and social media will be exploited by the criminal mind.
It is also clear that "sexual abuse of a child is a most serious crime and an act repugnant to the moral instincts of a decent people," Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, 535 U. S. 234, 244, and that a legislature "may pass valid laws to protect children" and other sexual assault victims, id., at 245.
However, the assertion of a valid governmental interest "cannot, in every context, be insulated from all constitutional protections."
Stanley v. Georgia, 394 U. S. 557, 563.
Two assumptions are made in resolving this case.
First, while the Court need not decide the statute's precise scope, it is enough to assume that the law applies to commonplace social networking sites like Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter.
Second, the Court assumes that the First Amendment permits a State to enact specific, narrowly-tailored laws that prohibit a sex offender from engaging in conduct that often presages a sexual crime, like contacting a minor or using a website to gather information about a minor.
Even with these assumptions, the statute here enacts a prohibition unprecedented in the scope of First Amendment speech it burdens.
Social media allows users to gain access to information and communicate with one another on any subject that might come to mind.
With one broad stroke, North Carolina bars access to what for many are the principal sources for knowing current events, checking ads for employment, speaking and listening in the modern public square, and otherwise exploring the vast realms of human thought and knowledge.
Foreclosing access to social media altogether thus prevents users from engaging in the legitimate exercise of First Amendment rights.
Even convicted criminals--and in some instances especially convicted criminals--might receive legitimate benefits from these means for access to the world of ideas, particularly if they seek to reform and to pursue lawful and rewarding lives.
Pp. 6-8.
(c) The State has not met its burden to show that this sweeping law is necessary or legitimate to serve its purpose of keeping convicted sex offenders away from vulnerable victims.
No case or holding of this Court has approved of a statute as broad in its reach.
The State relies on Burson v. Freeman, 504 U. S. 191, but that case considered a more limited restriction--prohibiting campaigning within 100 feet of a polling place--in order to protect the fundamental right to vote.
The Court noted, moreover, that a larger buffer zone could "become an impermissible burden" under the First Amendment.
Id., at 210.
The better analogy is Board of Airport Comm'rs of Los Angeles v. Jews for Jesus, Inc., 482 U. S. 569.
If an ordinance prohibiting any "First Amendment activities" at a single Los Angeles airport could be struck down because it covered all manner of protected, nondisruptive behavior, including "talking and reading, or the wearing of campaign buttons or symbolic clothing," id., at 571, 575, it follows with even greater force that the State may not enact this complete bar to the exercise of First Amendment rights on websites integral to the fabric of modern society and culture.
Pp. 9-10.
368 N. C. 380, 777 S. E. 2d 738, reversed and remanded.
Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.
Alito, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which Roberts, C. J., and Thomas, J., joined.
Gorsuch, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.
Opinion of the Court
582 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 15-1194
LESTER GERARD PACKINGHAM, PETITIONER v. NORTH CAROLINA
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of north carolina
[June 19, 2017]
Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.
In 2008, North Carolina enacted a statute making it a felony for a registered sex offender to gain access to a number of websites, including commonplace social media websites like Facebook and Twitter.
The question presented is whether that law is permissible under the First Amendment's Free Speech Clause, applicable to the States under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
I
A
North Carolina law makes it a felony for a registered sex offender "to access a commercial social networking Web site where the sex offender knows that the site permits minor children to become members or to create or maintain personal Web pages."
N. C. Gen. Stat.
Ann.
§§14-202.5(a), (e) (2015).
A "commercial social networking Web site" is defined as a website that meets four criteria.
First, it "[i]s operated by a person who derives revenue from membership fees, advertising, or other sources related to the operation of the Web site."
§14-202.5(b).
Second, it "[f]acilitates the social introduction between two or more persons for the purposes of friendship, meeting other persons, or information exchanges."
Ibid.
Third, it "[a]llows users to create Web pages or personal profiles that contain information such as the name or nickname of the user, photographs placed on the personal Web page by the user, other personal information about the user, and links to other personal Web pages on the commercial social networking Web site of friends or associates of the user that may be accessed by other users or visitors to the Web site."
Ibid.
And fourth, it "[p]rovides users or visitors . . . mechanisms to communicate with other users, such as a message board, chat room, electronic mail, or instant messenger."
Ibid.
The statute includes two express exemptions.
The statutory bar does not extend to websites that "[p]rovid[e] only one of the following discrete services: photo-sharing, electronic mail, instant messenger, or chat room or message board platform."
§14-202.5(c)(1).
The law also does not encompass websites that have as their "primary purpose the facilitation of commercial transactions involving goods or services between [their] members or visitors."
§14-202.5(c)(2).
According to sources cited to the Court, §14-202.5 applies to about 20,000 people in North Carolina and the State has prosecuted over 1,000 people for violating it.
Brief for Petitioner 6-8.
B
In 2002, petitioner Lester Gerard Packingham--then a 21-year-old college student--had sex with a 13-year-old girl.
He pleaded guilty to taking indecent liberties with a child.
Because this crime qualifies as "an offense against a minor," petitioner was required to register as a sex offender--a status that can endure for 30 years or more.
See §14-208.6A; see §14-208.7(a).
As a registered sex offender, petitioner was barred under §14-202.5 from gaining access to commercial social networking sites.
In 2010, a state court dismissed a traffic ticket against petitioner.
In response, he logged on to Facebook.com and posted the following statement on his personal profile:
"Man God is Good!
How about I got so much favor they dismissed the ticket before court even started?
No fine, no court cost, no nothing spent. . . . . .Praise be to GOD, WOW!
Thanks JESUS!"
App.
136.
At the time, a member of the Durham Police Department was investigating registered sex offenders who were thought to be violating §14-202.5.
The officer noticed that a " 'J. R. Gerrard' " had posted the statement quoted above.
368 N. C. 380, 381, 777 S. E. 2d 738, 742 (2015).
By checking court records, the officer discovered that a traffic citation for petitioner had been dismissed around the time of the post.
Evidence obtained by search warrant confirmed the officer's suspicions that petitioner was J. R. Gerrard.
Petitioner was indicted by a grand jury for violating §14-202.5.
The trial court denied his motion to dismiss the indictment on the grounds that the charge against him violated the First Amendment.
Petitioner was ultimately convicted and given a suspended prison sentence.
At no point during trial or sentencing did the State allege that petitioner contacted a minor--or committed any other illicit act--on the Internet.
Petitioner appealed to the Court of Appeals of North Carolina.
That court struck down §14-202.5 on First Amendment grounds, explaining that the law is not narrowly tailored to serve the State's legitimate interest in protecting minors from sexual abuse.
229 N. C. App.
293, 304, 748 S. E. 2d 146, 154 (2013).
Rather, the law "arbitrarily burdens all registered sex offenders by preventing a wide range of communication and expressive activity unrelated to achieving its purported goal."
Ibid.
The North Carolina Supreme Court reversed, concluding that the law is "constitutional in all respects."
368 N. C., at 381, 777 S. E. 2d, at 741.
Among other things, the court explained that the law is "carefully tailored . . . to prohibit registered sex offenders from accessing only those Web sites that allow them the opportunity to gather information about minors."
Id., at 389, 777 S. E. 2d, at 747.
The court also held that the law leaves open adequate alternative means of communication because it permits petitioner to gain access to websites that the court believed perform the "same or similar" functions as social media, such as the Paula Deen Network and the website for the local NBC affiliate.
Id., at 390, 777 S. E. 2d, at 747.
Two justices dissented.
They stated that the law impermissibly "creates a criminal prohibition of alarming breadth and extends well beyond the evils the State seeks to combat."
Id., at 401, 777 S. E. 2d, at 754 (opinion of Hudson, J.) (alteration, citation, and internal quotation marks omitted).
The Court granted certiorari, 580 U. S. ___ (2016), and now reverses.
II
A fundamental principle of the First Amendment is that all persons have access to places where they can speak and listen, and then, after reflection, speak and listen once more.
The Court has sought to protect the right to speak in this spatial context.
A basic rule, for example, is that a street or a park is a quintessential forum for the exercise of First Amendment rights.
See Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 796 (1989).
Even in the modern era, these places are still essential venues for public gatherings to celebrate some views, to protest others, or simply to learn and inquire.
While in the past there may have been difficulty in identifying the most important places (in a spatial sense) for the exchange of views, today the answer is clear.
It is cyberspace--the "vast democratic forums of the Internet" in general, Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 U. S. 844, 868 (1997), and social media in particular.
Seven in ten American adults use at least one Internet social networking service.
Brief for Electronic Frontier Foundation et al. as Amici Curiae 5-6.
One of the most popular of these sites is Facebook, the site used by petitioner leading to his conviction in this case.
According to sources cited to the Court in this case, Facebook has 1.79 billion active users.
Id., at 6.
This is about three times the population of North America.
Social media offers "relatively unlimited, low-cost capacity for communication of all kinds."
Reno, supra, at 870.
On Facebook, for example, users can debate religion and politics with their friends and neighbors or share vacation photos.
On LinkedIn, users can look for work, advertise for employees, or review tips on entrepreneurship.
And on Twitter, users can petition their elected representatives and otherwise engage with them in a direct manner.
Indeed, Governors in all 50 States and almost every Member of Congress have set up accounts for this purpose.
See Brief for Electronic Frontier Foundation 15-16.
In short, social media users employ these websites to engage in a wide array of protected First Amendment activity on topics "as diverse as human thought."
Reno, supra, at 870 (internal quotation marks omitted).
The nature of a revolution in thought can be that, in its early stages, even its participants may be unaware of it.
And when awareness comes, they still may be unable to know or foresee where its changes lead.
Cf. D. Hawke, Benjamin Rush: Revolutionary Gadfly 341 (1971) (quoting Rush as observing: " 'The American war is over; but this is far from being the case with the American revolution.
On the contrary, nothing but the first act of the great drama is closed' ").
So too here.
While we now may be coming to the realization that the Cyber Age is a revolution of historic proportions, we cannot appreciate yet its full dimensions and vast potential to alter how we think, express ourselves, and define who we want to be.
The forces and directions of the Internet are so new, so protean, and so far reaching that courts must be conscious that what they say today might be obsolete tomorrow.
This case is one of the first this Court has taken to address the relationship between the First Amendment and the modern Internet.
As a result, the Court must exercise extreme caution before suggesting that the First Amendment provides scant protection for access to vast networks in that medium.
III
This background informs the analysis of the North Carolina statute at issue.
Even making the assumption that the statute is content neutral and thus subject to intermediate scrutiny, the provision cannot stand.
In order to survive intermediate scrutiny, a law must be "narrowly tailored to serve a significant governmental interest."
McCullen v. Coakley, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 18) (internal quotation marks omitted).
In other words, the law must not "burden substantially more speech than is necessary to further the government's legitimate interests."
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 19) (internal quotation marks omitted).
For centuries now, inventions heralded as advances in human progress have been exploited by the criminal mind.
New technologies, all too soon, can become instruments used to commit serious crimes.
The railroad is one example, see M. Crichton, The Great Train Robbery, p. xv (1975), and the telephone another, see 18 U. S. C. §1343.
So it will be with the Internet and social media.
There is also no doubt that, as this Court has recognized, "[t]he sexual abuse of a child is a most serious crime and an act repugnant to the moral instincts of a decent people."
Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, 535 U. S. 234, 244 (2002).
And it is clear that a legislature "may pass valid laws to protect children" and other victims of sexual assault "from abuse."
See id., at 245; accord, New York v. Ferber, 458 U. S. 747, 757 (1982).
The government, of course, need not simply stand by and allow these evils to occur.
But the assertion of a valid governmental interest "cannot, in every context, be insulated from all constitutional protections."
Stanley v. Georgia, 394 U. S. 557, 563 (1969).
It is necessary to make two assumptions to resolve this case.
First, given the broad wording of the North Carolina statute at issue, it might well bar access not only to commonplace social media websites but also to websites as varied as Amazon.com, Washingtonpost.com, and Webmd.com.
See post, at 6-9; see also Brief for Electronic Frontier Foundation 24-27; Brief for Cato Institute et al. as Amici Curiae 10-12, and n. 6.
The Court need not decide the precise scope of the statute.
It is enough to assume that the law applies (as the State concedes it does) to social networking sites "as commonly understood"--that is, websites like Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter.
See Brief for Respondent 54; Tr.
of Oral Arg.
27.
Second, this opinion should not be interpreted as barring a State from enacting more specific laws than the one at issue.
Specific criminal acts are not protected speech even if speech is the means for their commission.
See Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U. S. 444, 447-449 (1969) ( per curiam).
Though the issue is not before the Court, it can be assumed that the First Amendment permits a State to enact specific, narrowly tailored laws that prohibit a sex offender from engaging in conduct that often presages a sexual crime, like contacting a minor or using a website to gather information about a minor.
Cf. Brief for Respondent 42-43.
Specific laws of that type must be the State's first resort to ward off the serious harm that sexual crimes inflict.
(Of importance, the troubling fact that the law imposes severe restrictions on persons who already have served their sentence and are no longer subject to the supervision of the criminal justice system is also not an issue before the Court.)
Even with these assumptions about the scope of the law and the State's interest, the statute here enacts a prohibition unprecedented in the scope of First Amendment speech it burdens.
Social media allows users to gain access to information and communicate with one another about it on any subject that might come to mind.
Supra, at 5.
By prohibiting sex offenders from using those websites, North Carolina with one broad stroke bars access to what for many are the principal sources for knowing current events, checking ads for employment, speaking and listening in the modern public square, and otherwise exploring the vast realms of human thought and knowledge.
These websites can provide perhaps the most powerful mechanisms available to a private citizen to make his or her voice heard.
They allow a person with an Internet connection to "become a town crier with a voice that resonates farther than it could from any soapbox."
Reno, 521 U. S., at 870.
In sum, to foreclose access to social media altogether is to prevent the user from engaging in the legitimate exercise of First Amendment rights.
It is unsettling to suggest that only a limited set of websites can be used even by persons who have completed their sentences.
Even convicted criminals--and in some instances especially convicted criminals--might receive legitimate benefits from these means for access to the world of ideas, in particular if they seek to reform and to pursue lawful and rewarding lives.
IV
The primary response from the State is that the law must be this broad to serve its preventative purpose of keeping convicted sex offenders away from vulnerable victims.
The State has not, however, met its burden to show that this sweeping law is necessary or legitimate to serve that purpose.
See McCullen, 573 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 28).
It is instructive that no case or holding of this Court has approved of a statute as broad in its reach.
The closest analogy that the State has cited is Burson v. Freeman, 504 U. S. 191 (1992).
There, the Court upheld a prohibition on campaigning within 100 feet of a polling place.
That case gives little or no support to the State.
The law in Burson was a limited restriction that, in a context consistent with constitutional tradition, was enacted to protect another fundamental right--the right to vote.
The restrictions there were far less onerous than those the State seeks to impose here.
The law in Burson meant only that the last few seconds before voters entered a polling place were "their own, as free from interference as possible."
Id., at 210.
And the Court noted that, were the buffer zone larger than 100 feet, it "could effectively become an impermissible burden" under the First Amendment.
Ibid.
The better analogy to this case is Board of Airport Comm'rs of Los Angeles v. Jews for Jesus, Inc., 482 U. S. 569 (1987), where the Court struck down an ordinance prohibiting any "First Amendment activities" at Los Angeles International Airport because the ordinance covered all manner of protected, nondisruptive behavior including "talking and reading, or the wearing of campaign buttons or symbolic clothing," id., at 571, 575.
If a law prohibiting "all protected expression" at a single airport is not constitutional, id., at 574 (emphasis deleted), it follows with even greater force that the State may not enact this complete bar to the exercise of First Amendment rights on websites integral to the fabric of our modern society and culture.
*??*??*
It is well established that, as a general rule, the Government "may not suppress lawful speech as the means to suppress unlawful speech."
Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, 535 U. S., at 255.
That is what North Carolina has done here.
Its law must be held invalid.
The judgment of the North Carolina Supreme Court is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
Justice Gorsuch took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
Alito, J., concurring in judgment
582 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 15-1194
LESTER GERARD PACKINGHAM, PETITIONER v. NORTH CAROLINA
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of north carolina
[June 19, 2017]
Justice Alito, with whom The Chief Justice and Justice Thomas join, concurring in the judgment.
The North Carolina statute at issue in this case was enacted to serve an interest of "surpassing importance."
New York v. Ferber, 458 U. S. 747, 757 (1982)--but it has a staggering reach.
It makes it a felony for a registered sex offender simply to visit a vast array of websites, including many that appear to provide no realistic opportunity for communications that could facilitate the abuse of children.
Because of the law's extraordinary breadth, I agree with the Court that it violates the Free Speech Clause of the First Amendment.
I cannot join the opinion of the Court, however, because of its undisciplined dicta.
The Court is unable to resist musings that seem to equate the entirety of the internet with public streets and parks.
Ante, at 4-5.
And this language is bound to be interpreted by some to mean that the States are largely powerless to restrict even the most dangerous sexual predators from visiting any internet sites, including, for example, teenage dating sites and sites designed to permit minors to discuss personal problems with their peers.
I am troubled by the implications of the Court's unnecessary rhetoric.
I
A
The North Carolina law at issue makes it a felony for a registered sex offender "to access a commercial social networking Web site where the sex offender knows that the site permits minor children to become members or to create or maintain personal Web pages."
N. C. Gen. Stat.
Ann.
§§14-202.5(a), (e) (2015).
And as I will explain, the statutory definition of a "commercial social networking Web site" is very broad.
Packingham and the State debate the analytical framework that governs this case.
The State argues that the law in question is content neutral and merely regulates a "place" (i.e., the internet) where convicted sex offenders may wish to engage in speech.
See Brief for Respondent 20-25.
Therefore, according to the State, the standard applicable to "time, place, or manner" restrictions should apply.
See Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 791 (1989).
Packingham responds that the challenged statute is "unlike any law this Court has considered as a time, place, or manner restriction," Brief for Petitioner 37, and he advocates a more demanding standard of review, id., at 37-39.
Like the Court, I find it unnecessary to resolve this dispute because the law in question cannot satisfy the standard applicable to a content-neutral regulation of the place where speech may occur.
B
A content-neutral "time, place, or manner" restriction must serve a "legitimate" government interest, Ward, supra, at 798, and the North Carolina law easily satisfies this requirement.
As we have frequently noted, "[t]he prevention of sexual exploitation and abuse of children constitutes a government objective of surpassing importance."
Ferber, supra, at 757.
"Sex offenders are a serious threat," and "the victims of sexual assault are most often juveniles."
McKune v. Lile, 536 U. S. 24, 32 (2002) (plurality opinion); see Connecticut Dept. of Public Safety v. Doe, 538 U. S. 1, 4 (2003). "
[T]he . . . interest [of] safeguarding the physical and psychological well-being of a minor . . . is a compelling one," Globe Newspaper Co. v. Superior Court, County of Norfolk, 457 U. S. 596, 607 (1982), and "we have sustained legislation aimed at protecting the physical and emotional well-being of youth even when the laws have operated in the sensitive area of constitutionally protected rights," Ferber, supra, at 757.
Repeat sex offenders pose an especially grave risk to children.
"When convicted sex offenders reenter society, they are much more likely than any other type of offender to be rearrested for a new rape or sexual assault."
McKune, supra, at 33 (plurality opinion); see United States v. Kebodeaux, 570 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2013) (slip op., at 8-9).
The State's interest in protecting children from recidivist sex offenders plainly applies to internet use.
Several factors make the internet a powerful tool for the would-be child abuser.
First, children often use the internet in a way that gives offenders easy access to their personal information--by, for example, communicating with strangers and allowing sites to disclose their location.1 Second, the internet provides previously unavailable ways of communicating with, stalking, and ultimately abusing children.
An abuser can create a false profile that misrepresents the abuser's age and gender.
The abuser can lure the minor into engaging in sexual conversations, sending explicit photos, or even meeting in person.
And an abuser can use a child's location posts on the internet to determine the pattern of the child's day-to-day activities--and even the child's location at a given moment.
Such uses of the internet are already well documented, both in research2 and in reported decisions.3
Because protecting children from abuse is a compelling state interest and sex offenders can (and do) use the internet to engage in such abuse, it is legitimate and entirely reasonable for States to try to stop abuse from occurring before it happens.
C
1
It is not enough, however, that the law before us is designed to serve a compelling state interest; it also must not "burden substantially more speech than is necessary to further the government's legitimate interests."
Ward, 491 U. S., at 798-799; see also McCullen v. Coakley, 573 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2014) (slip op., at 18-19).
The North Carolina law fails this requirement.
A straightforward reading of the text of N. C. Gen. Stat.
Ann.
§14-202.5 compels the conclusion that it prohibits sex offenders from accessing an enormous number of websites.
The law defines a "commercial social networking Web site" as one with four characteristics.
First, the website must be "operated by a person who derives revenue from membership fees, advertising, or other sources related to the operation of the Web site."
§14-202.5(b)(1).
Due to the prevalence of advertising on websites of all types, this requirement does little to limit the statute's reach.
Second, the website must "[f]acilitat[e] the social introduction between two or more persons for the purposes of friendship, meeting other persons, or information exchanges."
§14-202.5(b)(2).
The term "social introduction" easily encompasses any casual exchange, and the term "information exchanges" seems to apply to any site that provides an opportunity for a visitor to post a statement or comment that may be read by other visitors.
Today, a great many websites include this feature.
Third, a website must "[a]llo[w] users to create Web pages or personal profiles that contain information such as the name or nickname of the user, photographs placed on the personal Web page by the user, other personal information about the user, and links to other personal Web pages on the commercial social networking Web site of friends or associates of the user that may be accessed by other users or visitors to the Web site."
§14-202.5(b)(3) (emphasis added).
This definition covers websites that allow users to create anything that can be called a "personal profile," i.e., a short description of the user.4 Con-trary to the argument of the State, Brief for Respondent 26-27, everything that follows the phrase "such as" is an illustration of features that a covered website or personal profile may (but need not) include.
Fourth, in order to fit within the statute, a website must "[p]rovid[e] users or visitors . . . mechanisms to communicate with other users, such as a message board, chat room, electronic mail, or instant messenger."
§14-202.5(b)(4) (emphasis added).
This requirement seems to demand no more than that a website allow back-and-forth comments between users.
And since a comment function is undoubtedly a "mechanis[m] to communicate with other users," ibid., it appears to follow that any website with such a function satisfies this requirement.
2
The fatal problem for §14-202.5 is that its wide sweep precludes access to a large number of websites that are most unlikely to facilitate the commission of a sex crime against a child.
A handful of examples illustrates this point.
Take, for example, the popular retail website Amazon.com, which allows minors to use its services5 and meets all four requirements of §14-202.5's definition of a commercial social networking website.
First, as a seller of products, Amazon unquestionably derives revenue from the operation of its website.
Second, the Amazon site facilitates the social introduction of people for the purpose of information exchanges.
When someone purchases a product on Amazon, the purchaser can review the product and upload photographs, and other buyers can then respond to the review.6 This information exchange about products that Amazon sells undoubtedly fits within the definition in §14-202.5.
It is the equivalent of passengers on a bus comparing notes about products they have purchased.
Third, Amazon allows a user to create a personal profile, which is then associated with the product reviews that the user uploads.
Such a profile can contain an assortment of information, including the user's name, e-mail address, and picture.7 And fourth, given its back-and-forth comment function, Amazon satisfies the final statutory requirement.8
Many news websites are also covered by this definition.
For example, the Washington Post's website gives minors access9 and satisfies the four elements that define a commercial social networking website.
The website (1) derives revenue from ads and (2) facilitates social introductions for the purpose of information exchanges.
Users of the site can comment on articles, reply to other users' comments, and recommend another user's comment.10 Users can also (3) create personal profiles that include a name or nickname and a photograph.
The photograph and name will then appear next to every comment the user leaves on an article.
Finally (4), the back-and-forth comment section is a mechanism for users to communicate among themselves.
The site thus falls within §14-202.5 and is accordingly off limits for registered sex offenders in North Carolina.
Or consider WebMD--a website that contains health-related resources, from tools that help users find a doctor to information on preventative care and the symptoms associated with particular medical problems.
WebMD, too, allows children on the site.11 And it exhibits the four hallmarks of a "commercial social networking" website.
It obtains revenue from advertisements.12 It facilitates information exchanges--via message boards that allow users to engage in public discussion of an assortment of health issues.13 It allows users to create basic profile pages: Users can upload a picture and some basic information about themselves, and other users can see their aggregated comments and "likes.
"14 WebMD also provides message boards, which are specifically mentioned in the statute as a "mechanis[m] to communicate with other users."
N. C. Gen. Stat.
Ann.
§14-202.5(b)(4).
As these examples illustrate, the North Carolina law has a very broad reach and covers websites that are ill suited for use in stalking or abusing children.
The focus of the discussion on these sites--shopping, news, health--does not provide a convenient jumping off point for conversations that may lead to abuse.
In addition, the social exchanges facilitated by these websites occur in the open, and this reduces the possibility of a child being secretly lured into an abusive situation.
These websites also give sex offenders little opportunity to gather personal details about a child; the information that can be listed in a profile is limited, and the profiles are brief.
What is more, none of these websites make it easy to determine a child's precise location at a given moment.
For example, they do not permit photo streams (at most, a child could upload a single profile photograph), and they do not include up-to-the minute location services.
Such websites would provide essentially no aid to a would-be child abuser.
Placing this set of websites categorically off limits from registered sex offenders prohibits them from receiving or engaging in speech that the First Amendment protects and does not appreciably advance the State's goal of protecting children from recidivist sex offenders.
I am therefore compelled to conclude that, while the law before us addresses a critical problem, it sweeps far too broadly to satisfy the demands of the Free Speech Clause.15
II
While I thus agree with the Court that the particular law at issue in this case violates the First Amendment, I am troubled by the Court's loose rhetoric.
After noting that "a street or a park is a quintessential forum for the exercise of First Amendment rights," the Court states that "cyberspace" and "social media in particular" are now "the most important places (in a spatial sense) for the exchange of views."
Ante, at 4-5.
The Court declines to explain what this means with respect to free speech law, and the Court holds no more than that the North Carolina law fails the test for content-neutral "time, place, and manner" restrictions.
But if the entirety of the internet or even just "social media" sites16 are the 21st century equivalent of public streets and parks, then States may have little ability to restrict the sites that may be visited by even the most dangerous sex offenders.
May a State preclude an adult previously convicted of molesting children from visiting a dating site for teenagers?
Or a site where minors communicate with each other about personal problems?
The Court should be more attentive to the implications of its rhetoric for, contrary to the Court's suggestion, there are important differences between cyberspace and the physical world.
I will mention a few that are relevant to internet use by sex offenders.
First, it is easier for parents to monitor the physical locations that their children visit and the individuals with whom they speak in person than it is to monitor their internet use.
Second, if a sex offender is seen approaching children or loitering in a place frequented by children, this conduct may be observed by parents, teachers, or others.
Third, the internet offers an unprecedented degree of anonymity and easily permits a would-be molester to assume a false identity.
The Court is correct that we should be cautious in applying our free speech precedents to the internet.
Ante, at 6.
Cyberspace is different from the physical world, and if it is true, as the Court believes, that "we cannot appreciate yet" the "full dimensions and vast potential" of "the Cyber Age," ibid., we should proceed circumspectly, taking one step at a time.
It is regrettable that the Court has not heeded its own admonition of caution.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
See Pew Research Center, Teens, Social Media, and Privacy 5 (May 21, 2013), http://www.pewinternet.org/files/2013/05/PIP_ TeensSocialMediaandPrivacy_PDF.pdf (all internet materials as last visited June 16, 2017); J. Wolak, K. Mitchell, & D. Finkelhor, National Center for Missing & Exploited Children, Online Victimization of Youth: Five Years Later 7 (2006) (prepared by Univ. of N. H., Crimes Against Children Research Center), http://www.unh.edu/ccrc/pdf/CV138.pdf.
Footnote 2
See id., at 2-3; Wolak, Finkhor, Mitchell, & Ybarra, Online "Predators" and Their Victims, 63 Am.
Psychologist 111, 112 (Feb.-Mar.
2008).
Footnote 3
For example, in State v. Gallo, 275 Ore.
App.
868, 869, 365 P. 3d 1154, 1154-1155 (2015), a 32-year-old defendant posing as a 15-year-old boy used a social networking site to contact and befriend a 16-year-old autistic girl.
"He then arranged to meet the victim, took her to a park, and sexually abused her."
Ibid., 365 P. 3d, at 1155.
In United States v. Steele, 664 Fed.
Appx.
260, 261 (CA3 2016), the defendant "began interacting with a minor [victim] on the gay social networking cell phone application 'Jack'd.' "
He eventually met the 14-year-old victim and sexually abused him.
Ibid.
Sadly, these cases are not unique.
See, e.g., Himko v. English, 2016 WL 7645584, *1 (ND Fla., Dec. 5, 2016) (a convicted rapist and registered sex offender "contacted a sixteen-year-old girl using . . . Facebook" and then exchanged explicit text messages and photographs with her), report and recommendation adopted, 2017 WL 54246 (Jan. 4, 2017); Roberts v. United States, 2015 WL 7424858, *2-*3 (SD Ohio, Nov. 23, 2015) (the defendant "met a then 14-year-old child online via a social networking website called vampirefreaks.com" and then enticed the child to his home and "coerced the child to perform oral sex on him"), report and recommendation adopted, 2016 WL 112647 (Jan. 8, 2016), certificate of appealability denied, No. 16-3050 (CA6 June 15, 2016); State v. Murphy, 2016-0901, p. 3 (La.
App.
1 Cir.
10/28/16), 206 So.
3d 219, 224 (a defendant "initiated conversations" with his 12-year-old victim "on a social network chat site called 'Kik' " and later sent sexually graphic photographs of himself to the victim and received sexually graphic photos from her).
Footnote 4
See New Oxford American Dictionary 1394 (3d ed.
2010); Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1811 (2002); 12 Oxford English Dictionary 576 (2d ed.
1989).
Footnote 5
See Amazon, Conditions of Use (June 21, 2016), https://www.amazon.
com / gp / help /customer/display.
html/ref=help_search_1-2?
ie=UTF8& nodeId=201909000&qid=1490898710&sr=1-2.
Footnote 6
See Amazon, About Customer Reviews, https://www.amazon.com/ gp/help/customer/display.html/ref =hp_left_v4_sib?
ie=UTF8&nodeId= 201967050; Amazon, About Public Activity, https://www.amazon.com/ gp/ help/ customer/ display.html / ref = hp_left_v4_sib?
ie = UTF8&nodeId = 202076150.
Footnote 7
See Amazon, About Your Profile, https://www.amazon.com/ gp/help/customer/display.html/ref =hp_left_v4_sib?
ie=UTF8&nodeId= 202076210; Amazon, About Public Information, https://www.amazon.com/ gp/help/customer/display.html/ref =help_search_1-2?
ie =UTF8&nodeId = 202076170&qid=1490835739&sr=1-2.
Footnote 8
Amazon does not appear to fall within the statute's exemption for websites that have as their "primary purpose the facilitation of commercial transactions involving goods or services between its members or visitors."
§14-202.5(c)(2).
Amazon's primary purpose seems to be the facilitation of commercial transactions between its users and itself.
Footnote 9
See Washington Post, Terms of Service (July 1, 2014), https://www.
washingtonpost.com/terms-of-service/2011/11/18/gIQAldiYiN_story.html?
utm_term=.9be5851f95.
Footnote 10
See Washington Post, Ad choices (Nov. 21, 2011), https://www.
washingtonpost.com/ how -can -i- opt-out-of-online-advertising-cookies / 2011 / 11/18/gIQABECbiN_story.html?
utm_term=3da1f56d67e7; Washington Post, Privacy Policy (May 2, 2017), https://www.washingtonpost.com/ privacy-policy / 2011 / 11 / 18 / gIQASIiaiN _ story.html ?
utm_term = .8252a76f8df2.
Footnote 11
See WebMD, Terms and Conditions of Use (Nov. 2, 2016), https://www.
webmd.com/about-webmd-policies/about-terms-and-conditions-of-use.
Footnote 12
WebMD, Advertising Policy (June 9, 2016), http://www.webmd.com/ about-webmd-policies/about-advertising-policy.
Footnote 13
WebMD, Message Board Overview (Sept. 22, 2016), http://www.
webmd.com/about-webmd-policies/about-community-overview.
Footnote 14
See WebMD, Change Your Profile Settings (Feb. 19, 2014), http:// www.webmd.com/about-webmd-policies/profile.
Footnote 15
I express no view on whether a law that does not reach the sort of sites discussed above would satisfy the First Amendment.
Until such a law is before us, it is premature to address that question.
Footnote 16
As the law at issue here shows, it is not easy to provide a precise definition of a "social media" site, and the Court makes no effort to do so.
Thus, the scope of its dicta is obscure.
PENA-RODRIGUEZ v. COLORADO, (2017)
No. 15-606
Argued: October 11, 2016    Decided: March 6, 2017
A Colorado jury convicted petitioner Peña-Rodriguez of harassment and unlawful sexual contact.
Following the discharge of the jury, two jurors told defense counsel that, during deliberations, Juror H. C. had expressed anti-Hispanic bias toward petitioner and petitioner's alibi witness.
Counsel, with the trial court's supervision, obtained affidavits from the two jurors describing a number of biased statements by H. C.
The court acknowledged H. C.'s apparent bias but denied petitioner's motion for a new trial on the ground that Colorado Rule of Evidence 606(b) generally prohibits a juror from testifying as to statements made during deliberations in a proceeding inquiring into the validity of the verdict.
The Colorado Court of Appeals affirmed, agreeing that H. C.'s alleged statements did not fall within an exception to Rule 606(b).
The Colorado Supreme Court also affirmed, relying on Tanner v. United States, 483 U. S. 107, and Warger v. Shauers, 574 U. S. ___, both of which rejected constitutional challenges to the federal no-impeachment rule as applied to evidence of juror misconduct or bias.
Held: Where a juror makes a clear statement indicating that he or she relied on racial stereotypes or animus to convict a criminal defendant, the Sixth Amendment requires that the no-impeachment rule give way in order to permit the trial court to consider the evidence of the juror's statement and any resulting denial of the jury trial guarantee.
Pp. 6-21.
(a) At common law jurors were forbidden to impeach their verdict, either by affidavit or live testimony.
Some American jurisdictions adopted a more flexible version of the no-impeachment bar, known as the "Iowa rule," which prevented jurors from testifying only about their own subjective beliefs, thoughts, or motives during deliberations.
An alternative approach, later referred to as the federal approach, permitted an exception only for events extraneous to the deliberative process.
This Court's early decisions did not establish a clear preference for a particular version of the no-impeachment rule, appearing open to the Iowa rule in United States v. Reid, 12 How.
361, and Mattox v. United States, 146 U. S. 140, but rejecting that approach in McDonald v. Pless, 238 U. S. 264.
The common-law development of the rule reached a milestone in 1975 when Congress adopted Federal Rule of Evidence 606(b), which sets out a broad no-impeachment rule, with only limited exceptions.
This version of the no-impeachment rule has substantial merit, promoting full and vigorous discussion by jurors and providing considerable assurance that after being discharged they will not be summoned to recount their deliberations or otherwise harassed.
The rule gives stability and finality to verdicts.
Pp. 6-9.
(b) Some version of the no-impeachment rule is followed in every State and the District of Columbia, most of which follow the Federal Rule.
At least 16 jurisdictions have recognized an exception for juror testimony about racial bias in deliberations.
Three Federal Courts of Appeals have also held or suggested there is a constitutional exception for evidence of racial bias.
In addressing the common-law no-impeachment rule, this Court noted the possibility of an exception in the "gravest and most important cases."
United States v. Reid, supra, at 366; McDonald v. Pless, supra, at 269.
The Court has addressed the question whether the Constitution mandates an exception to Rule 606(b) just twice, rejecting an exception each time.
In Tanner, where the evidence showed that some jurors were under the influence of drugs and alcohol during the trial, the Court identified "long-recognized and very substantial concerns" supporting the no-impeachment rule.
483 U. S., at 127.
The Court also outlined existing, significant safeguards for the defendant's right to an impartial and competent jury beyond post-trial juror testimony: members of the venire can be examined for impartiality during voir dire; juror misconduct may be observed the court, counsel, and court personnel during the trial; and jurors themselves can report misconduct to the court before a verdict is rendered.
In Warger, a civil case where the evidence indicated that the jury forewoman failed to disclose a prodefendant bias during voir dire, the Court again put substantial reliance on existing safeguards for a fair trial.
But the Court also warned, as in Reid and McDonald, that the no-impeachment rule may admit of exceptions for "juror bias so extreme that, almost by definition, the jury trial right has been abridged."
574 U. S., at ___-___, n. 3.
Reid, McDonald, and Warger left open the question here: whether the Constitution requires an exception to the no-impeachment rule when a juror's statements indicate that racial animus was a significant motivating factor in his or her finding of guilt.
Pp. 9-13.
(c) The imperative to purge racial prejudice from the administration of justice was given new force and direction by the ratification of the Civil War Amendments. "
[T]he central purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment was to eliminate racial discrimination emanating from official sources in the States."
McLaughlin v. Florida, 379 U. S. 184, 192.
Time and again, this Court has enforced the Constitution's guarantee against state-sponsored racial discrimination in the jury system.
The Court has interpreted the Fourteenth Amendment to prohibit the exclusion of jurors based on race, Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 305-309; struck down laws and practices that systematically exclude racial minorities from juries, see, e.g., Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; ruled that no litigant may exclude a prospective juror based on race, see, e.g., Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U. S. 79; and held that defendants may at times be entitled to ask about racial bias during voir dire, see, e.g., Ham v. South Carolina, 409 U. S. 524.
The unmistakable principle of these precedents is that discrimination on the basis of race, "odious in all aspects, is especially pernicious in the administration of justice," Rose v. Mitchell, 443 U. S. 545, 555, damaging "both the fact and the perception" of the jury's role as "a vital check against the wrongful exercise of power by the State," Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S. 400, 411.
Pp. 13-15.
(d) This case lies at the intersection of the Court's decisions endorsing the no-impeachment rule and those seeking to eliminate racial bias in the jury system.
Those lines of precedent need not conflict.
Racial bias, unlike the behavior in McDonald, Tanner, or Warger, implicates unique historical, constitutional, and institutional concerns and, if left unaddressed, would risk systemic injury to the administration of justice.
It is also distinct in a pragmatic sense, for the Tanner safeguards may be less effective in rooting out racial bias.
But while all forms of improper bias pose challenges to the trial process, there is a sound basis to treat racial bias with added precaution.
A constitutional rule that racial bias in the justice system must be addressed--including, in some instances, after a verdict has been entered--is necessary to prevent a systemic loss of confidence in jury verdicts, a confidence that is a central premise of the Sixth Amendment trial right.
Pp. 15-17.
(e) Before the no-impeachment bar can be set aside to allow further judicial inquiry, there must be a threshold showing that one or more jurors made statements exhibiting overt racial bias that cast serious doubt on the fairness and impartiality of the jury's deliberations and resulting verdict.
To qualify, the statement must tend to show that racial animus was a significant motivating factor in the juror's vote to convict.
Whether the threshold showing has been satisfied is committed to the substantial discretion of the trial court in light of all the circumstances, including the content and timing of the alleged statements and the reliability of the proffered evidence.
The practical mechanics of acquiring and presenting such evidence will no doubt be shaped and guided by state rules of professional ethics and local court rules, both of which often limit counsel's post-trial contact with jurors.
The experience of those jurisdictions that have already recognized a racial-bias exception to the no-impeachment rule, and the experience of courts going forward, will inform the proper exercise of trial judge discretion.
The Court need not address what procedures a trial court must follow when confronted with a motion for a new trial based on juror testimony of racial bias or the appropriate standard for determining when such evidence is sufficient to require that the verdict be set aside and a new trial be granted.
Standard and existing safeguards may also help prevent racial bias in jury deliberations, including careful voir dire and a trial court's instructions to jurors about their duty to review the evidence, deliberate together, and reach a verdict in a fair and impartial way, free from bias of any kind.
Pp. 17-21.
350 P. 3d 287, reversed and remanded.
Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.
Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion.
Alito, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Roberts, C. J., and Thomas, J., joined.
Opinion of the Court
580 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 15-606
MIGUEL ANGEL PENA-RODRIGUEZ, PETITIONER v. COLORADO
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of colorado
[March 6, 2017]
Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.
The jury is a central foundation of our justice system and our democracy.
Whatever its imperfections in a particular case, the jury is a necessary check on governmental power.
The jury, over the centuries, has been an inspired, trusted, and effective instrument for resolving factual disputes and determining ultimate questions of guilt or innocence in criminal cases.
Over the long course its judgments find acceptance in the community, an acceptance essential to respect for the rule of law.
The jury is a tangible implementation of the principle that the law comes from the people.
In the era of our Nation's founding, the right to a jury trial already had existed and evolved for centuries, through and alongside the common law.
The jury was considered a fundamental safeguard of individual liberty.
See The Federalist No. 83, p. 451 (B. Warner ed.
1818) (A. Hamilton).
The right to a jury trial in criminal cases was part of the Constitution as first drawn, and it was restated in the Sixth Amendment.
Art.
III, §2, cl.
3; Amdt.
6.
By operation of the Fourteenth Amendment, it is applicable to the States.
Duncan v. Louisiana, 391 U. S. 145, 149-150 (1968).
Like all human institutions, the jury system has its flaws, yet experience shows that fair and impartial verdicts can be reached if the jury follows the court's instructions and undertakes deliberations that are honest, candid, robust, and based on common sense.
A general rule has evolved to give substantial protection to verdict finality and to assure jurors that, once their verdict has been entered, it will not later be called into question based on the comments or conclusions they expressed during deliberations.
This principle, itself centuries old, is often referred to as the no-impeachment rule.
The instant case presents the question whether there is an exception to the no-impeachment rule when, after the jury is discharged, a juror comes forward with compelling evidence that another juror made clear and explicit statements indicating that racial animus was a significant motivating factor in his or her vote to convict.
I
State prosecutors in Colorado brought criminal charges against petitioner, Miguel Angel Peña-Rodriguez, based on the following allegations.
In 2007, in the bathroom of a Colorado horse-racing facility, a man sexually assaulted two teenage sisters.
The girls told their father and identified the man as an employee of the racetrack.
The police located and arrested petitioner.
Each girl separately identified petitioner as the man who had assaulted her.
The State charged petitioner with harassment, unlawful sexual contact, and attempted sexual assault on a child.
Before the jury was empaneled, members of the venire were repeatedly asked whether they believed that they could be fair and impartial in the case.
A written questionnaire asked if there was "anything about you that you feel would make it difficult for you to be a fair juror."
App.
14.
The court repeated the question to the panel of prospective jurors and encouraged jurors to speak in private with the court if they had any concerns about their impartiality.
Defense counsel likewise asked whether anyone felt that "this is simply not a good case" for them to be a fair juror.
Id., at 34.
None of the empaneled jurors expressed any reservations based on racial or any other bias.
And none asked to speak with the trial judge.
After a 3-day trial, the jury found petitioner guilty of unlawful sexual contact and harassment, but it failed to reach a verdict on the attempted sexual assault charge.
When the jury was discharged, the court gave them this instruction, as mandated by Colorado law:
"The question may arise whether you may now discuss this case with the lawyers, defendant, or other persons.
For your guidance the court instructs you that whether you talk to anyone is entirely your own decision. . . .
If any person persists in discussing the case over your objection, or becomes critical of your service either before or after any discussion has begun, please report it to me."
Id., at 85-86.
Following the discharge of the jury, petitioner's counsel entered the jury room to discuss the trial with the jurors.
As the room was emptying, two jurors remained to speak with counsel in private.
They stated that, during deliberations, another juror had expressed anti-Hispanic bias toward petitioner and petitioner's alibi witness.
Petitioner's counsel reported this to the court and, with the court's supervision, obtained sworn affidavits from the two jurors.
The affidavits by the two jurors described a number of biased statements made by another juror, identified as Juror H. C.
According to the two jurors, H. C. told the other jurors that he "believed the defendant was guilty because, in [H. C.'s] experience as an ex-law enforcement officer, Mexican men had a bravado that caused them to believe they could do whatever they wanted with women."
Id., at 110.
The jurors reported that H. C. stated his belief that Mexican men are physically controlling of women because of their sense of entitlement, and further stated, " 'I think he did it because he's Mexican and Mexican men take whatever they want.' "
Id., at 109.
According to the jurors, H. C. further explained that, in his experience, "nine times out of ten Mexican men were guilty of being aggressive toward women and young girls."
Id., at 110.
Finally, the jurors recounted that Juror H. C. said that he did not find petitioner's alibi witness credible because, among other things, the witness was " 'an illegal.' "
Ibid.
(In fact, the witness testified during trial that he was a legal resident of the United States.)
After reviewing the affidavits, the trial court acknowledged H. C.'s apparent bias.
But the court denied petitioner's motion for a new trial, noting that "[t]he actual deliberations that occur among the jurors are protected from inquiry under [Colorado Rule of Evidence] 606(b)."
Id., at 90.
Like its federal counterpart, Colorado's Rule 606(b) generally prohibits a juror from testifying as to any statement made during deliberations in a proceeding inquiring into the validity of the verdict.
See Fed.
Rule Evid.
606(b).
The Colorado Rule reads as follows:
"(b) Inquiry into validity of verdict or indictment.
Upon an inquiry into the validity of a verdict or indictment, a juror may not testify as to any matter or statement occurring during the course of the jury's deliberations or to the effect of anything upon his or any other juror's mind or emotions as influencing him to assent to or dissent from the verdict or indictment or concerning his mental processes in connection therewith.
But a juror may testify about (1) whether extraneous prejudicial information was improperly brought to the jurors' attention, (2) whether any outside influence was improperly brought to bear upon any juror, or (3) whether there was a mistake in entering the verdict onto the verdict form.
A juror's affidavit or evidence of any statement by the juror may not be received on a matter about which the juror would be precluded from testifying."
Colo.
Rule Evid.
606(b) (2016).
The verdict deemed final, petitioner was sentenced to two years' probation and was required to register as a sex offender.
A divided panel of the Colorado Court of Appeals affirmed petitioner's conviction, agreeing that H. C.'s alleged statements did not fall within an exception to Rule 606(b) and so were inadmissible to undermine the validity of the verdict.
___ P. 3d ___, 2012 WL 5457362.
The Colorado Supreme Court affirmed by a vote of 4 to 3.
350 P. 3d 287 (2015).
The prevailing opinion relied on two decisions of this Court rejecting constitutional challenges to the federal no-impeachment rule as applied to evidence of juror misconduct or bias.
See Tanner v. United States, 483 U. S. 107 (1987); Warger v. Shauers, 574 U. S. ___ (2014).
After reviewing those precedents, the court could find no "dividing line between different types of juror bias or misconduct," and thus no basis for permitting impeachment of the verdicts in petitioner's trial, notwithstanding H. C.'s apparent racial bias.
350 P. 3d, at 293.
This Court granted certiorari to decide whether there is a constitutional exception to the no-impeachment rule for instances of racial bias.
578 U. S. ___ (2016).
Juror H. C.'s bias was based on petitioner's Hispanic identity, which the Court in prior cases has referred to as ethnicity, and that may be an instructive term here.
See, e.g., Hernandez v. New York, 500 U. S. 352, 355 (1991) (plurality opinion).
Yet we have also used the language of race when discussing the relevant constitutional principles in cases involving Hispanic persons.
See, e.g., ibid.; Fisher v. University of Tex. at Austin, 570 U. S. ___ (2013); Rosales-Lopez v. United States, 451 U. S. 182, 189-190 (1981) (plurality opinion).
Petitioner and respondent both refer to race, or to race and ethnicity, in this more expansive sense in their briefs to the Court.
This opinion refers to the nature of the bias as racial in keeping with the primary terminology employed by the parties and used in our precedents.
II
A
At common law jurors were forbidden to impeach their verdict, either by affidavit or live testimony.
This rule originated in Vaise v. Delaval, 1 T. R. 11, 99 Eng.
Rep. 944 (K. B. 1785).
There, Lord Mansfield excluded juror testimony that the jury had decided the case through a game of chance.
The Mansfield rule, as it came to be known, prohibited jurors, after the verdict was entered, from testifying either about their subjective mental processes or about objective events that occurred during deliberations.
American courts adopted the Mansfield rule as a matter of common law, though not in every detail.
Some jurisdictions adopted a different, more flexible version of the no-impeachment bar known as the "Iowa rule."
Under that rule, jurors were prevented only from testifying about their own subjective beliefs, thoughts, or motives during deliberations.
See Wright v. Illinois & Miss.
Tel.
Co., 20 Iowa 195 (1866).
Jurors could, however, testify about objective facts and events occurring during deliberations, in part because other jurors could corroborate that testimony.
An alternative approach, later referred to as the federal approach, stayed closer to the original Mansfield rule.
See Warger, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 5).
Under this version of the rule, the no-impeachment bar permitted an exception only for testimony about events extraneous to the deliberative process, such as reliance on outside evidence--newspapers, dictionaries, and the like--or personal investigation of the facts.
This Court's early decisions did not establish a clear preference for a particular version of the no-impeachment rule.
In United States v. Reid, 12 How.
361 (1852), the Court appeared open to the admission of juror testimony that the jurors had consulted newspapers during deliberations, but in the end it barred the evidence because the newspapers "had not the slightest influence" on the verdict.
Id., at 366.
The Reid Court warned that juror testimony "ought always to be received with great caution."
Ibid.
Yet it added an important admonition: "cases might arise in which it would be impossible to refuse" juror testimony "without violating the plainest principles of justice."
Ibid.
In a following case the Court required the admission of juror affidavits stating that the jury consulted information that was not in evidence, including a prejudicial newspaper article.
Mattox v. United States, 146 U. S. 140, 151 (1892).
The Court suggested, furthermore, that the admission of juror testimony might be governed by a more flexible rule, one permitting jury testimony even where it did not involve consultation of prejudicial extraneous information.
Id., at 148-149; see also Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347, 382-384 (1912) (stating that the more flexible Iowa rule "should apply," but excluding evidence that the jury reached the verdict by trading certain defendants' acquittals for others' convictions).
Later, however, the Court rejected the more lenient Iowa rule.
In McDonald v. Pless, 238 U. S. 264 (1915), the Court affirmed the exclusion of juror testimony about objective events in the jury room.
There, the jury allegedly had calculated a damages award by averaging the numerical submissions of each member.
Id., at 265-266.
As the Court explained, admitting that evidence would have "dangerous consequences": "no verdict would be safe" and the practice would "open the door to the most pernicious arts and tampering with jurors."
Id., at 268 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Yet the Court reiterated its admonition from Reid, again cautioning that the no-impeachment rule might recognize exceptions "in the gravest and most important cases" where exclusion of juror affidavits might well violate "the plainest principles of justice."
238 U. S., at 269 (quoting Reid, supra, at 366; internal quotation marks omitted).
The common-law development of the no-impeachment rule reached a milestone in 1975, when Congress adopted the Federal Rules of Evidence, including Rule 606(b).
Congress, like the McDonald Court, rejected the Iowa rule.
Instead it endorsed a broad no-impeachment rule, with only limited exceptions.
The version of the rule that Congress adopted was "no accident."
Warger, 574 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7).
The Advisory Committee at first drafted a rule reflecting the Iowa approach, prohibiting admission of juror testimony only as it related to jurors' mental processes in reaching a verdict.
The Department of Justice, however, expressed concern over the preliminary rule.
The Advisory Committee then drafted the more stringent version now in effect, prohibiting all juror testimony, with exceptions only where the jury had considered prejudicial extraneous evidence or was subject to other outside influence.
Rules of Evidence for United States Courts and Magistrates, 56 F. R. D. 183, 265 (1972).
The Court adopted this second version and transmitted it to Congress.
The House favored the Iowa approach, but the Senate expressed concern that it did not sufficiently address the public policy interest in the finality of verdicts.
S. Rep. No. 93-1277, pp. 13-14 (1974).
Siding with the Senate, the Conference Committee adopted, Congress enacted, and the President signed the Court's proposed rule.
The substance of the Rule has not changed since 1975, except for a 2006 modification permitting evidence of a clerical mistake on the verdict form.
See 574 U. S., at ___.
The current version of Rule 606(b) states as follows:
"(1) Prohibited Testimony or Other Evidence.
During an inquiry into the validity of a verdict or indictment, a juror may not testify about any statement made or incident that occurred during the jury's deliberations; the effect of anything on that juror's or another juror's vote; or any juror's mental processes concerning the verdict or indictment.
The court may not receive a juror's affidavit or evidence of a juror's statement on these matters.
"(2) Exceptions.
A juror may testify about whether:
"(A) extraneous prejudicial information was improperly brought to the jury's attention;
"(B) an outside influence was improperly brought to bear on any juror; or
"(C) a mistake was made in entering the verdict on the verdict form."
This version of the no-impeachment rule has substantial merit.
It promotes full and vigorous discussion by providing jurors with considerable assurance that after being discharged they will not be summoned to recount their deliberations, and they will not otherwise be harassed or annoyed by litigants seeking to challenge the verdict.
The rule gives stability and finality to verdicts.
B
Some version of the no-impeachment rule is followed in every State and the District of Columbia.
Variations make classification imprecise, but, as a general matter, it appears that 42 jurisdictions follow the Federal Rule, while 9 follow the Iowa Rule.
Within both classifications there is a diversity of approaches.
Nine jurisdictions that follow the Federal Rule have codified exceptions other than those listed in Federal Rule 606(b).
See Appendix, infra.
At least 16 jurisdictions, 11 of which follow the Federal Rule, have recognized an exception to the no-impeachment bar under the circumstances the Court faces here: juror testimony that racial bias played a part in deliberations.
Ibid.
According to the parties and amici, only one State other than Colorado has addressed this issue and declined to recognize an exception for racial bias.
See Commonwealth v. Steele, 599 Pa. 341, 377-379, 961 A. 2d 786, 807-808 (2012).
The federal courts, for their part, are governed by Federal Rule 606(b), but their interpretations deserve further comment.
Various Courts of Appeals have had occasion to consider a racial bias exception and have reached different conclusions.
Three have held or suggested there is a constitutional exception for evidence of racial bias.
See United States v. Villar, 586 F. 3d 76, 87-88 (CA1 2009) (holding the Constitution demands a racial-bias exception); United States v. Henley, 238 F. 3d 1111, 1119-1121 (CA9 2001) (finding persuasive arguments in favor of an exception but not deciding the issue); Shillcutt v. Gagnon, 827 F. 2d 1155, 1158-1160 (CA7 1987) (observing that in some cases fundamental fairness could require an exception).
One Court of Appeals has declined to find an exception, reasoning that other safeguards inherent in the trial process suffice to protect defendants' constitutional interests.
See United States v. Benally, 546 F. 3d 1230, 1240-1241 (CA10 2008).
Another has suggested as much, holding in the habeas context that an exception for racial bias was not clearly established but indicating in dicta that no such exception exists.
See Williams v. Price, 343 F. 3d 223, 237-239 (CA3 2003) (Alito, J.).
And one Court of Appeals has held that evidence of racial bias is excluded by Rule 606(b), without addressing whether the Constitution may at times demand an exception.
See Martinez v. Food City, Inc., 658 F. 2d 369, 373-374 (CA5 1981).
C
In addressing the scope of the common-law no-impeachment rule before Rule 606(b)'s adoption, the Reid and McDonald Courts noted the possibility of an exception to the rule in the "gravest and most important cases."
Reid, 12 How., at 366; McDonald, 238 U. S., at 269.
Yet since the enactment of Rule 606(b), the Court has addressed the precise question whether the Constitution mandates an exception to it in just two instances.
In its first case, Tanner, 483 U. S. 107, the Court rejected a Sixth Amendment exception for evidence that some jurors were under the influence of drugs and alcohol during the trial.
Id., at 125.
Central to the Court's reasoning were the "long-recognized and very substantial concerns" supporting "the protection of jury deliberations from intrusive inquiry."
Id., at 127.
The Tanner Court echoed McDonald's concern that, if attorneys could use juror testimony to attack verdicts, jurors would be "harassed and beset by the defeated party," thus destroying "all frankness and freedom of discussion and conference."
483 U. S., at 120 (quoting McDonald, supra, at 267-268).
The Court was concerned, moreover, that attempts to impeach a verdict would "disrupt the finality of the process" and undermine both "jurors' willingness to return an unpopular verdict" and "the community's trust in a system that relies on the decisions of laypeople."
483 U. S., at 120-121.
The Tanner Court outlined existing, significant safeguards for the defendant's right to an impartial and competent jury beyond post-trial juror testimony.
At the outset of the trial process, voir dire provides an opportunity for the court and counsel to examine members of the venire for impartiality.
As a trial proceeds, the court, counsel, and court personnel have some opportunity to learn of any juror misconduct.
And, before the verdict, jurors themselves can report misconduct to the court.
These procedures do not undermine the stability of a verdict once rendered.
Even after the trial, evidence of misconduct other than juror testimony can be used to attempt to impeach the verdict.
Id., at 127.
Balancing these interests and safeguards against the defendant's Sixth Amendment interest in that case, the Court affirmed the exclusion of affidavits pertaining to the jury's inebriated state.
Ibid.
The second case to consider the general issue presented here was Warger, 574 U. S. ___.
The Court again rejected the argument that, in the circumstances there, the jury trial right required an exception to the no-impeachment rule.
Warger involved a civil case where, after the verdict was entered, the losing party sought to proffer evidence that the jury forewoman had failed to disclose prodefendant bias during voir dire.
As in Tanner, the Court put substantial reliance on existing safeguards for a fair trial.
The Court stated: "Even if jurors lie in voir dire in a way that conceals bias, juror impartiality is adequately assured by the parties' ability to bring to the court's attention any evidence of bias before the verdict is rendered, and to employ nonjuror evidence even after the verdict is rendered."
574 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10).
In Warger, however, the Court did reiterate that the no-impeachment rule may admit exceptions.
As in Reid and McDonald, the Court warned of "juror bias so extreme that, almost by definition, the jury trial right has been abridged."
574 U. S., at ___-___, n. 3 (slip op., at 10-11, n. 3).
"If and when such a case arises," the Court indicated it would "consider whether the usual safeguards are or are not sufficient to protect the integrity of the process."
Ibid.
The recognition in Warger that there may be extreme cases where the jury trial right requires an exception to the no-impeachment rule must be interpreted in context as a guarded, cautious statement.
This caution is warranted to avoid formulating an exception that might undermine the jury dynamics and finality interests the no-impeachment rule seeks to protect.
Today, however, the Court faces the question that Reid, McDonald, and Warger left open.
The Court must decide whether the Constitution requires an exception to the no-impeachment rule when a juror's statements indicate that racial animus was a significant motivating factor in his or her finding of guilt.
III
It must become the heritage of our Nation to rise above racial classifications that are so inconsistent with our commitment to the equal dignity of all persons.
This imperative to purge racial prejudice from the administration of justice was given new force and direction by the ratification of the Civil War Amendments.
"[T]he central purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment was to eliminate racial discrimination emanating from official sources in the States."
McLaughlin v. Florida, 379 U. S. 184, 192 (1964).
In the years before and after the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment, it became clear that racial discrimination in the jury system posed a particular threat both to the promise of the Amendment and to the integrity of the jury trial.
"Almost immediately after the Civil War, the South began a practice that would continue for many decades: All-white juries punished black defendants particularly harshly, while simultaneously refusing to punish violence by whites, including Ku Klux Klan members, against blacks and Republicans."
Forman, Juries and Race in the Nineteenth Century, 113 Yale L. J. 895, 909-910 (2004).
To take one example, just in the years 1865 and 1866, all-white juries in Texas decided a total of 500 prosecutions of white defendants charged with killing African-Americans.
All 500 were acquitted.
Id., at 916.
The stark and unapologetic nature of race-motivated outcomes challenged the American belief that "the jury was a bulwark of liberty," id., at 909, and prompted Congress to pass legislation to integrate the jury system and to bar persons from eligibility for jury service if they had conspired to deny the civil rights of African-Americans, id., at 920-930.
Members of Congress stressed that the legislation was necessary to preserve the right to a fair trial and to guarantee the equal protection of the laws.
Ibid.
The duty to confront racial animus in the justice system is not the legislature's alone.
Time and again, this Court has been called upon to enforce the Constitution's guarantee against state-sponsored racial discrimination in the jury system.
Beginning in 1880, the Court interpreted the Fourteenth Amendment to prohibit the exclusion of jurors on the basis of race.
Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 305-309 (1880).
The Court has repeatedly struck down laws and practices that systematically exclude racial minorities from juries.
See, e.g., Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370 (1881); Hollins v. Oklahoma, 295 U. S. 394 (1935) (per curiam); Avery v. Georgia, 345 U. S. 559 (1953); Hernandez v. Texas, 347 U. S. 475 (1954); Castaneda v. Partida, 430 U. S. 482 (1977).
To guard against discrimination in jury selection, the Court has ruled that no litigant may exclude a prospective juror on the basis of race.
Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U. S. 79 (1986); Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Co., 500 U. S. 614 (1991); Georgia v. McCollum, 505 U. S. 42 (1992).
In an effort to ensure that individuals who sit on juries are free of racial bias, the Court has held that the Constitution at times demands that defendants be permitted to ask questions about racial bias during voir dire.
Ham v. South Carolina, 409 U. S. 524 (1973); Rosales-Lopez, 451 U. S. 182; Turner v. Murray, 476 U. S. 28 (1986).
The unmistakable principle underlying these precedents is that discrimination on the basis of race, "odious in all aspects, is especially pernicious in the administration of justice."
Rose v. Mitchell, 443 U. S. 545, 555 (1979).
The jury is to be "a criminal defendant's fundamental 'protection of life and liberty against race or color prejudice.' "
McCleskey v. Kemp, 481 U. S. 279, 310 (1987) (quoting Strauder, supra, at 309).
Permitting racial prejudice in the jury system damages "both the fact and the perception" of the jury's role as "a vital check against the wrongful exercise of power by the State."
Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S. 400, 411 (1991); cf. Aldridge v. United States, 283 U. S. 308, 315 (1931); Buck v. Davis, ante, at 22.
IV
A
This case lies at the intersection of the Court's decisions endorsing the no-impeachment rule and its decisions seeking to eliminate racial bias in the jury system.
The two lines of precedent, however, need not conflict.
Racial bias of the kind alleged in this case differs in critical ways from the compromise verdict in McDonald, the drug and alcohol abuse in Tanner, or the pro-defendant bias in Warger.
The behavior in those cases is troubling and unacceptable, but each involved anomalous behavior from a single jury--or juror--gone off course.
Jurors are presumed to follow their oath, cf. Penry v. Johnson, 532 U. S. 782, 799 (2001), and neither history nor common experience show that the jury system is rife with mischief of these or similar kinds.
To attempt to rid the jury of every irregularity of this sort would be to expose it to unrelenting scrutiny.
"It is not at all clear . . . that the jury system could survive such efforts to perfect it."
Tanner, 483 U. S., at 120.
The same cannot be said about racial bias, a familiar and recurring evil that, if left unaddressed, would risk systemic injury to the administration of justice.
This Court's decisions demonstrate that racial bias implicates unique historical, constitutional, and institutional concerns.
An effort to address the most grave and serious statements of racial bias is not an effort to perfect the jury but to ensure that our legal system remains capable of coming ever closer to the promise of equal treatment under the law that is so central to a functioning democracy.
Racial bias is distinct in a pragmatic sense as well.
In past cases this Court has relied on other safeguards to protect the right to an impartial jury.
Some of those safeguards, to be sure, can disclose racial bias.
Voir dire at the outset of trial, observation of juror demeanor and conduct during trial, juror reports before the verdict, and nonjuror evidence after trial are important mechanisms for discovering bias.
Yet their operation may be compromised, or they may prove insufficient.
For instance, this Court has noted the dilemma faced by trial court judges and counsel in deciding whether to explore potential racial bias at voir dire.
See Rosales-Lopez, supra; Ristaino v. Ross, 424 U. S. 589 (1976).
Generic questions about juror impartiality may not expose specific attitudes or biases that can poison jury deliberations.
Yet more pointed questions "could well exacerbate whatever prejudice might exist without substantially aiding in exposing it."
Rosales-Lopez, supra, at 195 (Rehnquist, J., concurring in result).
The stigma that attends racial bias may make it difficult for a juror to report inappropriate statements during the course of juror deliberations.
It is one thing to accuse a fellow juror of having a personal experience that improperly influences her consideration of the case, as would have been required in Warger.
It is quite another to call her a bigot.
The recognition that certain of the Tanner safeguards may be less effective in rooting out racial bias than other kinds of bias is not dispositive.
All forms of improper bias pose challenges to the trial process.
But there is a sound basis to treat racial bias with added precaution.
A constitutional rule that racial bias in the justice system must be addressed--including, in some instances, after the verdict has been entered--is necessary to prevent a systemic loss of confidence in jury verdicts, a confidence that is a central premise of the Sixth Amendment trial right.
B
For the reasons explained above, the Court now holds that where a juror makes a clear statement that indicates he or she relied on racial stereotypes or animus to convict a criminal defendant, the Sixth Amendment requires that the no-impeachment rule give way in order to permit the trial court to consider the evidence of the juror's statement and any resulting denial of the jury trial guarantee.
Not every offhand comment indicating racial bias or hostility will justify setting aside the no-impeachment bar to allow further judicial inquiry.
For the inquiry to proceed, there must be a showing that one or more jurors made statements exhibiting overt racial bias that cast serious doubt on the fairness and impartiality of the jury's deliberations and resulting verdict.
To qualify, the statement must tend to show that racial animus was a significant motivating factor in the juror's vote to convict.
Whether that threshold showing has been satisfied is a matter committed to the substantial discretion of the trial court in light of all the circumstances, including the content and timing of the alleged statements and the reliability of the proffered evidence.
The practical mechanics of acquiring and presenting such evidence will no doubt be shaped and guided by state rules of professional ethics and local court rules, both of which often limit counsel's post-trial contact with jurors.
See 27 C. Wright & V. Gold, Federal Practice and Procedure: Evidence §6076, pp. 580-583 (2d ed.
2007) (Wright); see also Variations of ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 3.5 (Sept. 15, 2016) (overview of state ethics rules); 2 Jurywork Systematic Techniques §13:18 (2016-2017) (overview of Federal District Court rules).
These limits seek to provide jurors some protection when they return to their daily affairs after the verdict has been entered.
But while a juror can always tell counsel they do not wish to discuss the case, jurors in some instances may come forward of their own accord.
That is what happened here.
In this case the alleged statements by a juror were egregious and unmistakable in their reliance on racial bias.
Not only did juror H. C. deploy a dangerous racial stereotype to conclude petitioner was guilty and his alibi witness should not be believed, but he also encouraged other jurors to join him in convicting on that basis.
Petitioner's counsel did not seek out the two jurors' allegations of racial bias.
Pursuant to Colorado's mandatory jury instruction, the trial court had set limits on juror contact and encouraged jurors to inform the court if anyone harassed them about their role in the case.
Similar limits on juror contact can be found in other jurisdictions that recognize a racial-bias exception.
See, e.g., Fla.
Standard Jury Instrs.
in Crim.
Cases No. 4.2 (West 2016) ("Although you are at liberty to speak with anyone about your deliberations, you are also at liberty to refuse to speak to anyone"); Mass.
Office of Jury Comm'r, Trial Juror's Handbook (Dec. 2015) ("You are not required to speak with anyone once the trial is over. . . .
If anyone tries to learn this confidential information from you, or if you feel harassed or embarrassed in any way, you should report it to the court . . . immediately"); N. J. Crim.
Model Jury Charges, Non 2C Charges, Dismissal of Jury (2014) ("It will be up to each of you to decide whether to speak about your service as a juror").
With the understanding that they were under no obligation to speak out, the jurors approached petitioner's counsel, within a short time after the verdict, to relay their concerns about H. C.'s statements.
App.
77.
A similar pattern is common in cases involving juror allegations of racial bias.
See, e.g., Villar, 586 F. 3d, at 78 (juror e-mailed defense counsel within hours of the verdict); Kittle v. United States, 65 A. 3d 1144, 1147 (D. C. 2013) (juror wrote a letter to the judge the same day the court discharged the jury); Benally, 546 F. 3d, at 1231 (juror approached defense counsel the day after the jury announced its verdict).
Pursuant to local court rules, petitioner's counsel then sought and received permission from the court to contact the two jurors and obtain affidavits limited to recounting the exact statements made by H. C. that exhibited racial bias.
While the trial court concluded that Colorado's Rule 606(b) did not permit it even to consider the resulting affidavits, the Court's holding today removes that bar.
When jurors disclose an instance of racial bias as serious as the one involved in this case, the law must not wholly disregard its occurrence.
C
As the preceding discussion makes clear, the Court relies on the experiences of the 17 jurisdictions that have recognized a racial-bias exception to the no-impeachment rule--some for over half a century--with no signs of an increase in juror harassment or a loss of juror willingness to engage in searching and candid deliberations.
The experience of these jurisdictions, and the experience of the courts going forward, will inform the proper exercise of trial judge discretion in these and related matters.
This case does not ask, and the Court need not address, what procedures a trial court must follow when confronted with a motion for a new trial based on juror testimony of racial bias.
See 27 Wright 575-578 (noting a divergence of authority over the necessity and scope of an evidentiary hearing on alleged juror misconduct).
The Court also does not decide the appropriate standard for determining when evidence of racial bias is sufficient to require that the verdict be set aside and a new trial be granted.
Compare, e.g., Shillcutt, 827 F. 2d, at 1159 (inquiring whether racial bias "pervaded the jury room"), with, e.g., Henley, 238 F. 3d, at 1120 ("One racist juror would be enough").
D
It is proper to observe as well that there are standard and existing processes designed to prevent racial bias in jury deliberations.
The advantages of careful voir dire have already been noted.
And other safeguards deserve mention.
Trial courts, often at the outset of the case and again in their final jury instructions, explain the jurors' duty to review the evidence and reach a verdict in a fair and impartial way, free from bias of any kind.
Some instructions are framed by trial judges based on their own learning and experience.
Model jury instructions likely take into account these continuing developments and are common across jurisdictions.
See, e.g., 1A K. O'Malley, J. Grenig, & W. Lee, Federal Jury Practice and Instructions, Criminal §10:01, p. 22 (6th ed.
2008) ("Perform these duties fairly.
Do not let any bias, sympathy or prejudice that you may feel toward one side or the other influence your decision in any way").
Instructions may emphasize the group dynamic of deliberations by urging jurors to share their questions and conclusions with their colleagues.
See, e.g., id., §20:01, at 841 ("It is your duty as jurors to consult with one another and to deliberate with one another with a view towards reaching an agreement if you can do so without violence to individual judgment").
Probing and thoughtful deliberation improves the likelihood that other jurors can confront the flawed nature of reasoning that is prompted or influenced by improper biases, whether racial or otherwise.
These dynamics can help ensure that the exception is limited to rare cases.
*??*??*
The Nation must continue to make strides to overcome race-based discrimination.
The progress that has already been made underlies the Court's insistence that blatant racial prejudice is antithetical to the functioning of the jury system and must be confronted in egregious cases like this one despite the general bar of the no-impeachment rule.
It is the mark of a maturing legal system that it seeks to understand and to implement the lessons of history.
The Court now seeks to strengthen the broader principle that society can and must move forward by achieving the thoughtful, rational dialogue at the foundation of both the jury system and the free society that sustains our Constitution.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
APPENDIX
Codified Exceptions in Addition to Those Enumerated in Fed.
Rule Evid.
606(b)
See Ariz.
Rules Crim.
Proc.
24.1(c)(3), (d) (2011) (exception for evidence of misconduct, including verdict by game of chance or intoxication); Idaho Rule Evid.
606(b) (2016) (game of chance); Ind.
Rule Evid.
606(b)(2)(A) (Burns 2014) (drug or alcohol use); Minn.
Rule Evid.
606(b) (2014) (threats of violence or violent acts); Mont.
Rule Evid.
606(b) (2015) (game of chance); N. D. Rule Evid.
606(b)(2)(C) (2016-2017) (same); Tenn.
Rule Evid.
606(b) (2016) (quotient verdict or game of chance); Tex.
Rule Evid.
606(b)(2)(B) (West 2016) (rebutting claim juror was unqualified); Vt.
Rule Evid.
606(b) (Cum.
Supp.
2016) (juror communication with nonjuror); see also 27 C. Wright & V. Gold, Federal Practice and Procedure: Evidence §6071, p. 447, and n. 66 (2d ed.
2007); id., at 451, and n. 70; id., at 452, and n. 72.
Judicially Recognized Exceptions for Evidence of Racial Bias
See State v. Santiago, 245 Conn. 301, 323-340, 715 A. 2d 1, 14-22 (1998); Kittle v. United States, 65 A. 3d 1144, 1154-1556 (D. C. 2013); Fisher v. State, 690 A. 2d 917, 919-921, and n. 4 (Del. 1996) (Appendix to opinion), Powell v. Allstate Ins.
Co., 652 So.
2d 354, 357-358 (Fla. 1995); Spencer v. State, 260 Ga. 640, 643-644, 398 S. E. 2d 179, 184-185 (1990); State v. Jackson, 81 Haw.
39, 48-49, 912 P. 2d 71, 80-81 (1996); Commonwealth v. Laguer, 410 Mass. 89, 97-98, 571 N. E. 2d 371, 376 (1991); State v. Callender, 297 N. W. 2d 744, 746 (Minn. 1980); Fleshner v. Pepose Vision Inst., P. C., 304 S. W. 3d 81, 87-90 (Mo. 2010); State v. Levitt, 36 N. J. 266, 271-273, 176 A. 2d 465, 467-468 (1961); People v. Rukaj, 123 App.
Div.
2d 277, 280-281, 506 N. Y. S. 2d 677, 679-680 (1986); State v. Hidanovic, 2008 ND 66, ¶¶21-26, 747 N. W. 2d 463, 472-474; State v. Brown, 62 A. 3d 1099, 1110 (R. I. 2013); State v. Hunter, 320 S. C. 85, 88, 463 S. E. 2d 314, 316 (1995); Seattle v. Jackson, 70 Wash. 2d 733, 738, 425 P. 2d 385, 389 (1967); After Hour Welding, Inc. v. Laneil Management Co., 108 Wis. 2d 734, 739-740, 324 N. W. 2d 686, 690 (1982).
Thomas, J., dissenting
580 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 15-606
MIGUEL ANGEL PENA-RODRIGUEZ, PETITIONER v. COLORADO
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of colorado
[March 6, 2017]
Justice Thomas, dissenting.
The Court today holds that the Sixth Amendment requires the States to provide a criminal defendant the opportunity to impeach a jury's guilty verdict with juror testimony about a juror's alleged racial bias, notwithstanding a state procedural rule forbidding such testimony.
I agree with Justice Alito that the Court's decision is incompatible with the text of the Amendment it purports to interpret and with our precedents.
I write separately to explain that the Court's holding also cannot be squared with the original understanding of the Sixth or Fourteenth Amendments.
I
The Sixth Amendment's protection of the right, "[i]n all criminal prosecutions," to a "trial, by an impartial jury," is limited to the protections that existed at common law when the Amendment was ratified.
See, e.g., Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466, 500, and n. 1 (2000) (Thomas, J., concurring); 3 J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States §1773, pp. 652-653 (1833) (Story) (explaining that "the trial by jury in criminal cases" protected by the Constitution is the same "great privilege" that was "a part of that admirable common law" of England); cf. 5 St. G. Tucker, Blackstone's Commentaries 349, n. 2 (1803).
It is therefore "entirely proper to look to the common law" to ascertain whether the Sixth Amendment requires the result the Court today reaches.
Apprendi, supra, at 500, n. 1.
The Sixth Amendment's specific guarantee of impartiality incorporates the common-law understanding of that term.
See, e.g., 3 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 365 (1769) (Blackstone) (describing English trials as "impartially just" because of their "caution against all partiality and bias" in the jury).
The common law required a juror to have "freedome of mind" and to be "indifferent as hee stands unsworne."
1 E. Coke, First Part of the Institutes of the Laws of England §234, p. 155a (16th ed.
1809); accord, 3 M. Bacon, A New Abridgment of the Law 258 (3d ed.
1768); cf. T. Cooley, A Treatise on the Constitutional Limitations Which Rest Upon the Legislative Power of the States of the American Union 319 (1868) ("The jury must be indifferent between the prisoner and the commonwealth").
Impartial jurors could "have no interest of their own affected, and no personal bias, or pre-possession, in favor [of] or against either party."
Pettis v. Warren, 1 Kirby 426, 427 (Conn.
Super.
1788).
II
The common-law right to a jury trial did not, however, guarantee a defendant the right to impeach a jury verdict with juror testimony about juror misconduct, including "a principal species of [juror] misbehaviour"--"notorious partiality."
3 Blackstone 388.
Although partiality was a ground for setting aside a jury verdict, ibid., the English common-law rule at the time the Sixth Amendment was ratified did not allow jurors to supply evidence of that misconduct.
In 1770, Lord Mansfield refused to receive a juror's affidavit to impeach a verdict, declaring that such an affidavit "can't be read."
Rex v. Almon, 5 Burr.
2687, 98 Eng.
Rep. 411 (K. B.).
And in 1785, Lord Mansfield solidified the doctrine, holding that "[t]he Court [could not] receive such an affidavit from any of the jurymen" to prove that the jury had cast lots to reach a verdict.
Vaise v. Delaval, 1 T. R. 11, 99 Eng.
Rep. 944 (K. B.).1
At the time of the founding, the States took mixed approaches to this issue.
See Cluggage v. Swan, 4 Binn.
150, 156 (Pa. 1811) (opinion of Yeates, J.) ("The opinions of American judges . . . have greatly differed on the point in question"); Bishop v. Georgia, 9 Ga. 121, 126 (1850) (describing the common law in 1776 on this question as "in a transition state").
Many States followed Lord Mansfield's no-impeachment rule and refused to receive juror affidavits.
See, e.g., Brewster v. Thompson, 1 N. J. L. 32 (1790) (per curiam); Robbins v. Windover, 2 Tyl.
11, 14 (Vt. 1802); Taylor v. Giger, 3 Ky. 586, 597-598 (1808); Price v. McIlvain, 2 Tread.
503, 504 (S. C. 1815); Tyler v. Stevens, 4 N. H. 116, 117 (1827); 1 Z. Swift, A Digest of the Laws of the State of Connecticut 775 (1822) ("In England, and in the courts of the United States, jurors are not permitted to be witnesses respecting the misconduct of the jury . . . and this is, most unquestionably, the correct principle").
Some States, however, permitted juror affidavits about juror misconduct.
See, e.g., Crawford v. State, 10 Tenn. 60, 68 (1821); Cochran v. Street, 1 Va. 79, 81 (1792).
And others initially permitted such evidence but quickly reversed course.
Compare, e.g., Smith v. Cheetham, 3 Cai.
R. 57, 59-60 (N. Y. 1805) (opinion of Livingston, J.) (permitting juror testimony), with Dana v. Tucker, 4 Johns.
487, 488-489 (N. Y. 1809) (per curiam) (overturning Cheetham); compare also Bradley's Lessee v. Bradley, 4 Dall.
112 (Pa. 1792) (permitting juror affidavits), with, e.g., Cluggage, supra, at 156-158 (opinion of Yeates, J.) (explaining that Bradley was incorrectly reported and rejecting affidavits); compare also Talmadge v. Northrop, 1 Root 522 (Conn. 1793) (admitting juror testimony), with State v. Freeman, 5 Conn. 348, 350-352 (1824) ("The opinion of almost the whole legal world is adverse to the reception of the testimony in question; and, in my opinion, on invincible foundations").
By the time the Fourteenth Amendment was ratified, Lord Mansfield's no-impeachment rule had become firmly entrenched in American law.
See Lettow, New Trial for Verdict Against Law: Judge-Jury Relations in Early-Nineteenth Century America, 71 Notre Dame L. Rev. 505, 536 (1996) ("[O]pponents of juror affidavits had largely won out by the middle of the century"); 8 J. Wigmore, Evidence in Trials at Common Law §2352, p. 697 (J. McNaughton rev. 1961) (Wigmore) (Lord Mansfield's rule "came to receive in the United States an adherence almost unquestioned"); J. Proffatt, A Treatise on Trial by Jury §408, p. 467 (1877) ("It is a well established rule of law that no affidavit shall be received from a juror to impeach his verdict").
The vast majority of States adopted the no-impeachment rule as a matter of common law.
See, e.g., Bull v. Commonwealth, 55 Va. 613, 627-628 (1857) ("[T]he practice appears to be now generally settled, to reject the testimony of jurors when offered to impeach their verdict.
The cases on the subject are too numerous to be cited"); Tucker v. Town Council of South Kingstown, 5 R. I. 558, 560 (1859) (collecting cases); State v. Coupenhaver, 39 Mo. 430 (1867) ("The law is well settled that a traverse juror cannot be a witness to prove misbehavior in the jury in regard to their verdict"); Peck v. Brewer, 48 Ill. 54, 63 (1868) ("So far back as . . . 1823, the doctrine was held that the affidavits of jurors cannot be heard to impeach their verdict"); Heffron v. Gallupe, 55 Me.
563, 566 (1868) (ruling inadmissible "depositions of . . . jurors as to what transpired in the jury room"); Withers v. Fiscus, 40 Ind. 131, 131-132 (1872) ("In the United States it seems to be settled, notwithstanding a few adjudications to the contrary . . . , that such affidavits cannot be received").2
The Court today acknowledges that the States "adopted the Mansfield rule as a matter of common law," ante, at 6, but ascribes no significance to that fact.
I would hold that it is dispositive.
Our common-law history does not establish that--in either 1791 (when the Sixth Amendment was ratified) or 1868 (when the Fourteenth Amendment was ratified)--a defendant had the right to impeach a verdict with juror testimony of juror misconduct.
In fact, it strongly suggests that such evidence was prohibited.
In the absence of a definitive common-law tradition permitting impeachment by juror testimony, we have no basis to invoke a constitutional provision that merely "follow[s] out the established course of the common law in all trials for crimes," 3 Story §1785, at 662, to overturn Colorado's decision to preserve the no-impeachment rule, cf. Boumediene v. Bush, 553 U. S. 723, 832-833 (2008) (Scalia, J., dissenting).
*??*??*
Perhaps good reasons exist to curtail or abandon the no-impeachment rule.
Some States have done so, see Appendix to majority opinion, ante, and others have not.
Ultimately, that question is not for us to decide.
It should be left to the political process described by Justice Alito.
See post, at 5-7 (dissenting opinion).
In its attempt to stimulate a "thoughtful, rational dialogue" on race relations, ante, at 21, the Court today ends the political process and imposes a uniform, national rule.
The Constitution does not require such a rule.
Neither should we.
I respectfully dissent.
Alito, J., dissenting
580 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 15-606
MIGUEL ANGEL PENA-RODRIGUEZ, PETITIONER v. COLORADO
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of colorado
[March 6, 2017]
Justice Alito, with whom The Chief Justice and Justice Thomas join, dissenting.
Our legal system has many rules that restrict the admission of evidence of statements made under circumstances in which confidentiality is thought to be essential.
Statements made to an attorney in obtaining legal advice, statements to a treating physician, and statements made to a spouse or member of the clergy are familiar examples.
See Trammel v. United States, 445 U. S. 40, 51 (1980).
Even if a criminal defendant whose constitutional rights are at stake has a critical need to obtain and introduce evidence of such statements, long-established rules stand in the way.
The goal of avoiding interference with confidential communications of great value has long been thought to justify the loss of important evidence and the effect on our justice system that this loss entails.
The present case concerns a rule like those just mentioned, namely, the age-old rule against attempting to overturn or "impeach" a jury's verdict by offering statements made by jurors during the course of deliberations.
For centuries, it has been the judgment of experienced judges, trial attorneys, scholars, and lawmakers that allowing jurors to testify after a trial about what took place in the jury room would undermine the system of trial by jury that is integral to our legal system.
Juries occupy a unique place in our justice system.
The other participants in a trial--the presiding judge, the attorneys, the witnesses--function in an arena governed by strict rules of law.
Their every word is recorded and may be closely scrutinized for missteps.
When jurors retire to deliberate, however, they enter a space that is not regulated in the same way.
Jurors are ordinary people.
They are expected to speak, debate, argue, and make decisions the way ordinary people do in their daily lives.
Our Constitution places great value on this way of thinking, speaking, and deciding.
The jury trial right protects parties in court cases from being judged by a special class of trained professionals who do not speak the language of ordinary people and may not understand or appreciate the way ordinary people live their lives.
To protect that right, the door to the jury room has been locked, and the confidentiality of jury deliberations has been closely guarded.
Today, with the admirable intention of providing justice for one criminal defendant, the Court not only pries open the door; it rules that respecting the privacy of the jury room, as our legal system has done for centuries, violates the Constitution.
This is a startling development, and although the Court tries to limit the degree of intrusion, it is doubtful that there are principled grounds for preventing the expansion of today's holding.
The Court justifies its decision on the ground that the nature of the confidential communication at issue in this particular case--a clear expression of what the Court terms racial bias1--is uniquely harmful to our criminal justice system.
And the Court is surely correct that even a tincture of racial bias can inflict great damage on that system, which is dependent on the public's trust.
But until today, the argument that the Court now finds convincing has not been thought to be sufficient to overcome confidentiality rules like the one at issue here.
Suppose that a prosecution witness gives devastating but false testimony against a defendant, and suppose that the witness's motivation is racial bias.
Suppose that the witness admits this to his attorney, his spouse, and a member of the clergy.
Suppose that the defendant, threatened with conviction for a serious crime and a lengthy term of imprisonment, seeks to compel the attorney, the spouse, or the member of the clergy to testify about the witness's admissions.
Even though the constitutional rights of the defendant hang in the balance, the defendant's efforts to obtain the testimony would fail.
The Court provides no good reason why the result in this case should not be the same.
I
Rules barring the admission of juror testimony to impeach a verdict (so-called "no-impeachment rules") have a long history.
Indeed, they pre-date the ratification of the Constitution.
They are typically traced back to Vaise v. Delaval, 1 T. R. 11, 99 Eng.
Rep. 944 (K. B. 1785), in which Lord Mansfield declined to consider an affidavit from two jurors who claimed that the jury had reached its verdict by lot.
See Warger v. Shauers, 574 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 4).
Lord Mansfield's approach "soon took root in the United States," ibid., and "[b]y the beginning of [the 20th] century, if not earlier, the near-universal and firmly established common-law rule in the United States flatly prohibited the admission of juror testimony to impeach a jury verdict," Tanner v. United States, 483 U. S. 107, 117 (1987); see 27 C. Wright & V. Gold, Federal Practice and Procedure: Evidence §6071, p. 431 (2d ed.
2007) (Wright & Gold) (noting that the Mansfield approach "came to be accepted in almost all states").
In McDonald v. Pless, 238 U. S. 264 (1915), this Court adopted a strict no-impeachment rule for cases in federal court.
McDonald involved allegations that the jury had entered a quotient verdict--that is, that it had calculated a damages award by taking the average of the jurors' suggestions.
Id., at 265-266.
The Court held that evidence of this misconduct could not be used.
Id., at 269.
It applied what it said was "unquestionably the general rule, that the losing party cannot, in order to secure a new trial, use the testimony of jurors to impeach their verdict."
Ibid.
The Court recognized that the defendant had a powerful interest in demonstrating that the jury had "adopted an arbitrary and unjust method in arriving at their verdict."
Id., at 267.
"But," the Court warned, "let it once be established that verdicts . . . can be attacked and set aside on the testimony of those who took part in their publication and all verdicts could be, and many would be, followed by an inquiry in the hope of discovering something which might invalidate the finding."
Ibid.
This would lead to "harass[ment]" of jurors and "the destruction of all frankness and freedom of discussion and conference."
Id., at 267-268.
Ultimately, even though the no-impeachment rule "may often exclude the only possible evidence of misconduct," relaxing the rule "would open the door to the most pernicious arts and tampering with jurors."
Id., at 268 (internal quotation marks omitted).
The firm no-impeachment approach taken in McDonald came to be known as "the federal rule."
This approach categorically bars testimony about jury deliberations, except where it is offered to demonstrate that the jury was subjected to an extraneous influence (for example, an attempt to bribe a juror).
Warger, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 5); Tanner, supra, at 117;2 see 27 Wright & Gold §6071, at 432-433.
Some jurisdictions, notably Iowa, adopted a more permissive rule.
Under the Iowa rule, jurors were generally permitted to testify about any subject except their "subjective intentions and thought processes in reaching a verdict."
Warger, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 4).
Accordingly, the Iowa rule allowed jurors to "testify as to events or conditions which might have improperly influenced the verdict, even if these took place during deliberations within the jury room."
27 Wright & Gold §6071, at 432.
Debate between proponents of the federal rule and the Iowa rule emerged during the framing and adoption of Federal Rule of Evidence 606(b).
Both sides had their supporters.
The contending arguments were heard and considered, and in the end the strict federal approach was retained.
An early draft of the Advisory Committee on the Federal Rules of Evidence included a version of the Iowa rule, 51 F. R. D. 315, 387-388 (1971).
That draft was forcefully criticized, however,3 and the Committee ultimately produced a revised draft that retained the well-established federal approach.
Tanner, supra, at 122; see Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure of the Judicial Conference of the United States, Revised Draft of Proposed Rules of Evidence for the United States Courts and Magistrates 73 (Oct. 1971).
Expressly repudiating the Iowa rule, the new draft provided that jurors generally could not testify "as to any matter or statement occurring during the course of the jury's deliberations."
Ibid.
This new version was approved by the Judicial Conference and sent to this Court, which adopted the rule and referred it to Congress.
56 F. R. D. 183, 265-266 (1972).
Initially, the House rejected this Court's version of Rule 606(b) and instead reverted to the earlier (and narrower) Advisory Committee draft.
Tanner, supra, at 123; see H. R. Rep. No. 93-650, pp. 9-10 (1973) (criticizing the Supreme Court draft for preventing jurors from testifying about "quotient verdict[s]" and other "irregularities which occurred in the jury room").
In the Senate, however, the Judiciary Committee favored this Court's rule.
The Committee Report observed that the House draft broke with "long-accepted Federal law" by allowing verdicts to be "challenge[d] on the basis of what happened during the jury's internal deliberations."
S. Rep. No. 93-1277, p. 13 (1974) (S. Rep.).
In the view of the Senate Committee, the House rule would have "permit[ted] the harassment of former jurors" as well as "the possible exploitation of disgruntled or otherwise badly-motivated ex-jurors."
Id., at 14.
This result would have undermined the finality of verdicts, violated "common fairness," and prevented jurors from "function[ing] effectively."
Ibid.
The Senate rejected the House version of the rule and returned to the Court's rule.
A Conference Committee adopted the Senate version, see H. R. Conf.
Rep. No. 93-1597, p. 8 (1974), and this version was passed by both Houses and was signed into law by the President.
As this summary shows, the process that culminated in the adoption of Federal Rule of Evidence 606(b) was the epitome of reasoned democratic rulemaking.
The "distinguished, Supreme Court-appointed" members of the Advisory Committee went through a 7-year drafting process, "produced two well-circulated drafts," and "considered numerous comments from persons involved in nearly every area of court-related law."
Rothstein, The Proposed Amendments to the Federal Rules of Evidence, 62 Geo.
L. J. 125 (1973).
The work of the Committee was considered and approved by the experienced appellate and trial judges serving on the Judicial Conference and by our predecessors on this Court.
After that, the matter went to Congress, which "specifically understood, considered, and rejected a version of [the rule] that would have allowed jurors to testify on juror conduct during deliberations."
Tanner, 483 U. S., at 125.
The judgment of all these participants in the process, which was informed by their assessment of an empirical issue, i.e., the effect that the competing Iowa rule would have had on the jury system, is entitled to great respect.
Colorado considered this same question, made the same judgment as the participants in the federal process, and adopted a very similar rule.
In doing so, it joined the overwhelming majority of States.
Ante, at 9.
In the great majority of jurisdictions, strong no-impeachment rules continue to be "viewed as both promoting the finality of verdicts and insulating the jury from outside influences."
Warger, 574 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 4).
II
A
Recognizing the importance of Rule 606(b), this Court has twice rebuffed efforts to create a Sixth Amendment exception--first in Tanner and then, just two Terms ago, in Warger.
The Tanner petitioners were convicted of committing mail fraud and conspiring to defraud the United States.
483 U. S., at 109-110, 112-113.
After the trial, two jurors came forward with disturbing stories of juror misconduct.
One claimed that several jurors "consumed alcohol during lunch breaks . . . causing them to sleep through the afternoons."
Id., at 113.
The second added that jurors also smoked marijuana and ingested cocaine during the trial.
Id., at 115-116.
This Court held that evidence of this bacchanalia could properly be excluded under Rule 606(b).
Id., at 127.
The Court noted that "[s]ubstantial policy considerations support the common-law rule against the admission of jury testimony to impeach a verdict."
Id., at 119.
While there is "little doubt that postverdict investigation into juror misconduct would in some instances lead to the invalidation of verdicts reached after irresponsible or improper juror behavior," the Court observed, it is "not at all clear . . . that the jury system could survive such efforts to perfect it."
Id., at 120.
Allowing such post-verdict inquiries would "seriously disrupt the finality of the process."
Ibid.
It would also undermine "full and frank discussion in the jury room, jurors' willingness to return an unpopular verdict, and the community's trust in a system that relies on the decisions of laypeople."
Id., at 120-121.
The Tanner petitioners, of course, had a Sixth Amendment right "to 'a tribunal both impartial and mentally competent to afford a hearing.' "
Id., at 126 (quoting Jordan v. Massachusetts, 225 U. S. 167, 176 (1912)).
The question, however, was whether they also had a right to an evidentiary hearing featuring "one particular kind of evidence inadmissible under the Federal Rules."
483 U. S., at 126-127.
Turning to that question, the Court noted again that "long-recognized and very substantial concerns support the protection of jury deliberations from intrusive inquiry."
Id., at 127.
By contrast, "[p]etitioners' Sixth Amendment interests in an unimpaired jury . . . [were] protected by several aspects of the trial process."
Ibid.
The Court identified four mechanisms that protect defendants' Sixth Amendment rights.
First, jurors can be "examined during voir dire."
Ibid.
Second, "during the trial the jury is observable by the court, by counsel, and by court personnel."
Ibid.
Third, "jurors are observable by each other, and may report inappropriate juror behavior to the court before they render a verdict."
Ibid.
And fourth, "after the trial a party may seek to impeach the verdict by nonjuror evidence of misconduct."
Ibid.
These "other sources of protection of petitioners' right to a competent jury" convinced the Court that the juror testimony was properly excluded.
Ibid.
Warger involved a negligence suit arising from a motorcycle crash.
574 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 1).
During voir dire, the individual who eventually became the jury's foreperson said that she could decide the case fairly and impartially.
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 2).
After the jury returned a verdict in favor of the defendant, one of the jurors came forward with evidence that called into question the truthfulness of the foreperson's responses during voir dire.
According to this juror, the foreperson revealed during the deliberations that her daughter had once caused a deadly car crash, and the foreperson expressed the belief that a lawsuit would have ruined her daughter's life.
Ibid.
In seeking to use this testimony to overturn the jury's verdict, the plaintiff's primary contention was that Rule 606(b) does not apply to evidence concerning a juror's alleged misrepresentations during voir dire.
If otherwise interpreted, the plaintiff maintained, the rule would threaten his right to trial by an impartial jury.4 The Court disagreed, in part because "any claim that Rule 606(b) is unconstitutional in circumstances such as these is foreclosed by our decision in Tanner."
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 10).
The Court explained that "[e]ven if jurors lie in voir dire in a way that conceals bias, juror impartiality is adequately assured by" two of the other Tanner safeguards: pre-verdict reports by the jurors and non-juror evidence.
574 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10).
Tanner and Warger fit neatly into this Court's broader jurisprudence concerning the constitutionality of evidence rules.
As the Court has explained, "state and federal rulemakers have broad latitude under the Constitution to establish rules excluding evidence from criminal trials."
Holmes v. South Carolina, 547 U. S. 319, 324 (2006) (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted).
Thus, evidence rules of this sort have been invalidated only if they "serve no legitimate purpose or . . . are disproportionate to the ends that they are asserted to promote."
Id., at 326.
Tanner and Warger recognized that Rule 606(b) serves vital purposes and does not impose a disproportionate burden on the jury trial right.
Today, for the first time, the Court creates a constitutional exception to no-impeachment rules.
Specifically, the Court holds that no-impeachment rules violate the Sixth Amendment to the extent that they preclude courts from considering evidence of a juror's racially biased comments.
Ante, at 17.
The Court attempts to distinguish Tanner and Warger, but its efforts fail.
Tanner and Warger rested on two basic propositions.
First, no-impeachment rules advance crucial interests.
Second, the right to trial by an impartial jury is adequately protected by mechanisms other than the use of juror testimony regarding jury deliberations.
The first of these propositions applies regardless of the nature of the juror misconduct, and the Court does not argue otherwise.
Instead, it contends that, in cases involving racially biased jurors, the Tanner safeguards are less effective and the defendant's Sixth Amendment interests are more profound.
Neither argument is persuasive.
B
As noted above, Tanner identified four "aspects of the trial process" that protect a defendant's Sixth Amendment rights: (1) voir dire; (2) observation by the court, counsel, and court personnel; (3) pre-verdict reports by the jurors; and (4) non-juror evidence.
483 U. S., at 127.5 Although the Court insists that that these mechanisms "may be compromised" in cases involving allegations of racial bias, it addresses only two of them and fails to make a sustained argument about either.
Ante, at 16.
1
First, the Court contends that the effectiveness of voir dire is questionable in cases involving racial bias because pointed questioning about racial attitudes may highlight racial issues and thereby exacerbate prejudice.
Ibid.
It is far from clear, however, that careful voir dire cannot surmount this problem.
Lawyers may use questionnaires or individual questioning of prospective jurors6 in order to elicit frank answers that a juror might be reluctant to voice in the presence of other prospective jurors.7 Moreover, practice guides are replete with advice on conducting effective voir dire on the subject of race.
They outline a variety of subtle and nuanced approaches that avoid pointed questions.8 And of course, if an attorney is concerned that a juror is concealing bias, a peremptory strike may be used.9
The suggestion that voir dire is ineffective in unearthing bias runs counter to decisions of this Court holding that voir dire on the subject of race is constitutionally required in some cases, mandated as a matter of federal supervisory authority in others, and typically advisable in any case if a defendant requests it.
See Turner v. Murray, 476 U. S. 28, 36-37 (1986); Rosales-Lopez v. United States, 451 U. S. 182, 192 (1981) (plurality opinion); Ristaino v. Ross, 424 U. S. 589, 597, n. 9 (1976).
If voir dire were not useful in identifying racial prejudice, those decisions would be pointless.
Cf. Turner, supra, at 36 (plurality opinion) (noting "the ease with which [the] risk [of racial bias] could have been minimized" through voir dire).
Even the majority recognizes the "advantages of careful voir dire" as a "proces[s] designed to prevent racial bias in jury deliberations."
Ante, at 20.
And reported decisions substantiate that voir dire can be effective in this regard.
E.g., Brewer v. Marshall, 119 F. 3d 993, 995-996 (CA1 1997); United States v. Hasting, 739 F. 2d 1269, 1271 (CA7 1984); People v. Harlan, 8 P. 3d 448, 500 (Colo. 2000); see Brief for Respondent 23-24, n. 7 (listing additional cases).
Thus, while voir dire is not a magic cure, there are good reasons to think that it is a valuable tool.
In any event, the critical point for present purposes is that the effectiveness of voir dire is a debatable empirical proposition.
Its assessment should be addressed in the process of developing federal and state evidence rules.
Federal and state rulemakers can try a variety of approaches, and they can make changes in response to the insights provided by experience and research.
The approach taken by today's majority--imposing a federal constitutional rule on the entire country--prevents experimentation and makes change exceedingly hard.10
2
The majority also argues--even more cursorily--that "racial bias may make it difficult for a juror to report inappropriate statements during the course of juror deliberations."
Ante, at 16.
This is so, we are told, because it is difficult to "call [another juror] a bigot."
Ibid.
Since the Court's decision mandates the admission of the testimony of one juror about a statement made by another juror during deliberations, what the Court must mean in making this argument is that jurors are less willing to report biased comments by fellow jurors prior to the beginning of deliberations (while they are still sitting with the biased juror) than they are after the verdict is announced and the jurors have gone home.
But this is also a questionable empirical assessment, and the Court's seat-of-the-pants judgment is no better than that of those with the responsibility of drafting and adopting federal and state evidence rules.
There is no question that jurors do report biased comments made by fellow jurors prior to the beginning of deliberations.
See, e.g., United States v. McClinton, 135 F. 3d 1178, 1184-1185 (CA7 1998); United States v. Heller, 785 F. 2d 1524, 1525-1529 (CA11 1986); Tavares v. Holbrook, 779 F. 2d 1, 1-3 (CA1 1985) (Breyer, J.); see Brief for Respondent 31-32, n. 10; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 31.
And the Court marshals no evidence that such pre-deliberation reporting is rarer than the post-verdict variety.
Even if there is something to the distinction that the Court makes between pre- and post-verdict reporting, it is debatable whether the difference is significant enough to merit different treatment.
This is especially so because post-verdict reporting is both more disruptive and may be the result of extraneous influences.
A juror who is initially in the minority but is ultimately persuaded by other jurors may have second thoughts after the verdict is announced and may be angry with others on the panel who pressed for unanimity.
In addition, if a verdict is unpopular with a particular juror's family, friends, employer, co-workers, or neighbors, the juror may regret his or her vote and may feel pressured to rectify what the jury has done.
In short, the Court provides no good reason to depart from the calculus made in Tanner and Warger.
Indeed, the majority itself uses hedged language and appears to recognize that this "pragmatic" argument is something of a makeweight.
Ante, at 16-17 (noting that the argument is "not dispositive"); ante, at 16 (stating that the operation of the safeguards "may be compromised, or they may prove insufficient").
III
A
The real thrust of the majority opinion is that the Constitution is less tolerant of racial bias than other forms of juror misconduct, but it is hard to square this argument with the nature of the Sixth Amendment right on which petitioner's argument and the Court's holding are based.
What the Sixth Amendment protects is the right to an "impartial jury."
Nothing in the text or history of the Amendment or in the inherent nature of the jury trial right suggests that the extent of the protection provided by the Amendment depends on the nature of a jury's partiality or bias.
As the Colorado Supreme Court aptly put it, it is hard to "discern a dividing line between different types of juror bias or misconduct, whereby one form of partiality would implicate a party's Sixth Amendment right while another would not."
350 P. 3d 287, 293 (2015).11
Nor has the Court found any decision of this Court suggesting that the Sixth Amendment recognizes some sort of hierarchy of partiality or bias.
The Court points to a line of cases holding that, in some narrow circumstances, the Constitution requires trial courts to conduct voir dire on the subject of race.
Those decisions, however, were not based on a ranking of types of partiality but on the Court's conclusion that in certain cases racial bias was especially likely.
See Turner, 476 U. S., at 38, n. 12 (plurality opinion) (requiring voir dire on the subject of race where there is "a particularly compelling need to inquire into racial prejudice" because of a qualitatively higher "risk of racial bias"); Ristaino, 424 U. S., at 596 (explaining that the requirement applies only if there is a "constitutionally significant likelihood that, absent questioning about racial prejudice, the jurors would not be [impartial]").12 Thus, this line of cases does not advance the majority's argument.
It is undoubtedly true that "racial bias implicates unique historical, constitutional, and institutional concerns."
Ante, at 16.
But it is hard to see what that has to do with the scope of an individual criminal defendant's Sixth Amendment right to be judged impartially.
The Court's efforts to reconcile its decision with McDonald, Tanner, and Warger illustrate the problem.
The Court writes that the misconduct in those cases, while "troubling and unacceptable," was "anomalous."
Ante, at 15.
By contrast, racial bias, the Court says, is a "familiar and recurring evil" that causes "systemic injury to the administration of justice."
Ante, at 15-16.
Imagine two cellmates serving lengthy prison terms.
Both were convicted for homicides committed in unrelated barroom fights.
At the trial of the first prisoner, a juror, during deliberations, expressed animosity toward the defendant because of his race.
At the trial of the second prisoner, a juror, during deliberations, expressed animosity toward the defendant because he was wearing the jersey of a hated football team.
In both cases, jurors come forward after the trial and reveal what the biased juror said in the jury room.
The Court would say to the first prisoner: "You are entitled to introduce the jurors' testimony, because racial bias is damaging to our society."
To the second, the Court would say: "Even if you did not have an impartial jury, you must stay in prison because sports rivalries are not a major societal issue."
This disparate treatment is unsupportable under the Sixth Amendment.
If the Sixth Amendment requires the admission of juror testimony about statements or conduct during deliberations that show one type of juror partiality, then statements or conduct showing any type of partiality should be treated the same way.
B
Recasting this as an equal protection case would not provide a ground for limiting the holding to cases involving racial bias.
At a minimum, cases involving bias based on any suspect classification--such as national origin13 or religion14--would merit equal treatment.
So, I think, would bias based on sex, United States v. Virginia, 518 U. S. 515, 531 (1996), or the exercise of the First Amendment right to freedom of expression or association.
See Regan v. Taxation With Representation of Washington, 461 U. S. 540, 545 (1983).
Indeed, convicting a defendant on the basis of any irrational classification would violate the Equal Protection Clause.
Attempting to limit the damage worked by its decision, the Court says that only "clear" expressions of bias must be admitted, ante, at 17, but judging whether a statement is sufficiently "clear" will often not be easy.
Suppose that the allegedly biased juror in this case never made reference to Peña-Rodriguez's race or national origin but said that he had a lot of experience with "this macho type" and knew that men of this kind felt that they could get their way with women.
Suppose that other jurors testified that they were certain that "this macho type" was meant to refer to Mexican or Hispanic men.
Many other similarly suggestive statements can easily be imagined, and under today's decision it will be difficult for judges to discern the dividing line between those that are "clear[ly]" based on racial or ethnic bias and those that are at least somewhat ambiguous.
IV
Today's decision--especially if it is expanded in the ways that seem likely--will invite the harms that no-impeachment rules were designed to prevent.
First, as the Court explained in Tanner, "postverdict scrutiny of juror conduct" will inhibit "full and frank discussion in the jury room."
483 U. S., at 120-121; see also McDonald, 238 U. S., at 267-268 (warning that the use of juror testimony about misconduct during deliberations would "make what was intended to be a private deliberation, the constant subject of public investigation--to the destruction of all frankness and freedom of discussion and conference").
Or, as the Senate Report put it: "[C]ommon fairness requires that absolute privacy be preserved for jurors to engage in the full and free debate necessary to the attainment of just verdicts.
Jurors will not be able to function effectively if their deliberations are to be scrutinized in post-trial litigation."
S. Rep., at 14.
Today's ruling will also prompt losing parties and their friends, supporters, and attorneys to contact and seek to question jurors, and this pestering may erode citizens' willingness to serve on juries.
Many jurisdictions now have rules that prohibit or restrict post-verdict contact with jurors, but whether those rules will survive today's decision is an open question--as is the effect of this decision on privilege rules such as those noted at the outset of this opinion.15
Where post-verdict approaches are permitted or occur, there is almost certain to be an increase in harassment, arm-twisting, and outright coercion.
See McDonald, supra, at 267; S. Rep., at 14 (explaining that a laxer rule "would permit the harassment of former jurors by losing parties as well as the possible exploitation of disgruntled or otherwise badly-motivated ex-jurors"); 350 P. 3d, at 293.
As one treatise explains, "[a] juror who reluctantly joined a verdict is likely to be sympathetic to overtures by the loser, and persuadable to the view that his own consent rested on false or impermissible considerations, and the truth will be hard to know."
3 C. Mueller & L. Kirkpatrick, Federal Evidence §6:16, p. 75 (4th ed.
2013).
The majority's approach will also undermine the finality of verdicts.
"Public policy requires a finality to litigation."
S. Rep., at 14.
And accusations of juror bias--which may be "raised for the first time days, weeks, or months after the verdict"--can "seriously disrupt the finality of the process."
Tanner, supra, at 120.
This threatens to "degrad[e] the prominence of the trial itself" and to send the message that juror misconduct need not be dealt with promptly.
Engle v. Isaac, 456 U. S. 107, 127 (1982).
See H. R. Conf.
Rep. No. 93-1597, at 8 ("The Conferees believe that jurors should be encouraged to be conscientious in promptly reporting to the court misconduct that occurs during jury deliberations").
The Court itself acknowledges that strict no-impeachment rules "promot[e] full and vigorous discussion," protect jurors from "be[ing] harassed or annoyed by litigants seeking to challenge the verdict," and "giv[e] stability and finality to verdicts."
Ante, at 9.
By the majority's own logic, then, imposing exceptions on no-impeachment rules will tend to defeat full and vigorous discussion, expose jurors to harassment, and deprive verdicts of stability.
The Court's only response is that some jurisdictions already make an exception for racial bias, and the Court detects no signs of "a loss of juror willingness to engage in searching and candid deliberations."
Ante, at 19.
One wonders what sort of outward signs the Court would expect to see if jurors in these jurisdictions do not speak as freely in the jury room as their counterparts in jurisdictions with strict no-impeachment rules.
Gathering and assessing evidence regarding the quality of jury deliberations in different jurisdictions would be a daunting enterprise, and the Court offers no indication that anybody has undertaken that task.
In short, the majority barely bothers to engage with the policy issues implicated by no-impeachment rules.
But even if it had carefully grappled with those issues, it still would have no basis for exalting its own judgment over that of the many expert policymakers who have endorsed broad no-impeachment rules.
V
The Court's decision is well-intentioned.
It seeks to remedy a flaw in the jury trial system, but as this Court said some years ago, it is questionable whether our system of trial by jury can endure this attempt to perfect it.
Tanner, 483 U. S., at 120.
I respectfully dissent.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
Prior to 1770, it appears that juror affidavits were sometimes received to impeach a verdict on the ground of juror misbehavior, although only "with great caution."
McDonald v. Pless, 238 U. S. 264, 268 (1915); see, e.g., Dent v.
The Hundred of Hertford, 2 Salk.
645, 91 Eng.
Rep. 546 (K. B. 1696); Philips v. Fowler, Barnes.
441, 94 Eng.
Rep. 994 (K. B. 1735).
But "previous to our Revolution, and at least as early as 1770, the doctrine in England was distinctly ruled the other way, and has so stood ever since."
3 T. Waterman, A Treatise on the Principles of Law and Equity Which Govern Courts in the Granting of New Trials in Cases Civil and Criminal 1429 (1855).
Footnote 2
Although two States declined to follow the rule in the mid-19th century, see Wright v. Illinois & Miss.
Tel.
Co., 20 Iowa 195, 210 (1866); Perry v. Bailey, 12 Kan. 539, 544-545 (1874), "most of the state courts" had already "committed themselves upon the subject," 8 Wigmore §2354, at 702.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1
The bias at issue in this case was a "bias against Mexican men."
App.
160.
This might be described as bias based on national origin or ethnicity.
Cf. Hernandez v. New York, 500 U. S. 352, 355 (1991) (plurality opinion); Hernandez v. Texas, 347 U. S. 475, 479 (1954).
However, no party has suggested that these distinctions make a substantive difference in this case.
Footnote 2
As this Court has explained, the extraneous influence exception "do[es] not detract from, but rather harmonize[s] with, the weighty government interest in insulating the jury's deliberative process."
Tanner, 483 U. S., at 120.
The extraneous influence exception, like the no-impeachment rule itself, is directed at protecting jury deliberations against unwarranted interference.
Ibid.
Footnote 3
In particular, the Justice Department observed that "[s]trong policy considerations continue to support" the federal approach and that "[r]ecent experience has shown that the danger of harassment of jurors by unsuccessful litigants warrants a rule which imposes strict limitations on the instances in which jurors may be questioned about their verdict."
Letter from R. Kliendienst, Deputy Attorney General, to Judge A. Maris (Aug. 9, 1971), 117 Cong.
Rec.
33648, 33655 (1971).
And Senator McClellan, an influential member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, insisted that the "mischief in this Rule ought to be plain for all to see" and that it would be impossible "to conduct trials, particularly criminal prosecutions, as we know them today, if every verdict were followed by a post-trial hearing into the conduct of the juror's deliberations."
Letter from Sen. J. McClellan to Judge A. Maris (Aug. 12, 1971), id., at 33642, 33645.
Footnote 4
Although Warger was a civil case, we wrote that "[t]he Constitution guarantees both criminal and civil litigants a right to an impartial jury."
574 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9).
Footnote 5
The majority opinion in this case identifies a fifth mechanism: jury instructions.
It observes that, by explaining the jurors' responsibilities, appropriate jury instructions can promote "[p]robing and thoughtful deliberation," which in turn "improves the likelihood that other jurors can confront the flawed nature of reasoning that is prompted or influenced by improper biases."
Ante, at 20-21.
This mechanism, like those listed in Tanner, can help to prevent bias from infecting a verdict.
Footnote 6
Both of those techniques were used in this case for other purposes.
App.
13-14; Tr.
56-78 (Feb. 23, 2010, morning session).
Footnote 7
See People v. Harlan, 8 P. 3d 448, 500 (Colo. 2000) ("The trial court took precautions at the outset of the trial to foreclose the injection of improper racial considerations by including questions concerning racial issues in the jury questionnaire"); Brewer v. Marshall, 119 F. 3d 993, 996 (CA1 1997) ("The judge asked each juror, out of the presence of other jurors, whether they had any bias or prejudice for or against black persons or persons of Hispanic origin"); 6 W. LaFave, J. Israel, N. King, & O. Kerr, Criminal Procedure §22.3(a), p. 92 (4th ed.
2015) (noting that "[j]udges commonly allow jurors to approach the bench and discuss sensitive matters there" and are also free to conduct "in chambers discussions").
Footnote 8
See, e.g., J. Gobert, E. Kreitzberg, & C. Rose, Jury Selection: The Law, Art, and Science of Selecting a Jury §7:41, pp. 357-358 (3d ed.
2014) (explaining that "the issue should be approached more indirectly" and suggesting the use of "[o]pen-ended questions" on subjects like "the composition of the neighborhood in which the juror lives, the juror's relationship with co-workers or neighbors of different races, or the juror's past experiences with persons of other races"); W. Jordan, Jury Selection §8.11, p. 237 (1980) (explaining that "the whole matter of prejudice" should be approached "delicately and cautiously" and giving an example of an indirect question that avoids the word "prejudice"); R. Wenke, The Art of Selecting a Jury 67 (1979) (discussing questions that could identify biased jurors when "your client is a member of a minority group"); id., at 66 (suggesting that instead of "asking a juror if he is 'prejudiced' " the attorney should "inquire about his 'feeling,' 'belief' or 'opinion' "); 2 National Jury Project, Inc., Jurywork: Systematic Techniques §17.23 (E. Krauss ed., 2d ed.
2010) (listing sample questions about racial prejudice); A. Grine & E. Coward, Raising Issues of Race in North Carolina Criminal Cases, p. 8-14 (2014) (suggesting that attorneys "share a brief example about a judgment shaped by a racial stereotype" to make it easier for jurors to share their own biased views), http://defendermanuals.sog.unc.edu/race/8-addressing-race-trial (as last visited Mar. 3, 2017); id., at 8-15 to 8-17 (suggesting additional strategies and providing sample questions); T. Mauet, Trial Techniques 44 (8th ed.
2010) (suggesting that "likely beliefs and attitudes are more accurately learned through indirection"); J. Lieberman & B. Sales, Scientific Jury Selection 114-115 (2007) (discussing research suggesting that "participants were more likely to admit they were unable to abide by legal due process guarantees when asked open-ended questions that did not direct their responses").
Footnote 9
To the extent race does become salient during voir dire, there is social science research suggesting that this may actually combat rather than reinforce the jurors' biases.
See, e.g., Lee, A New Approach to Voir Dire on Racial Bias, 5 U. C. Irvine L. Rev. 843, 861 (2015) ("A wealth of fairly recent empirical research has shown that when race is made salient either through pretrial publicity, voir dire questioning of prospective jurors, opening and closing arguments, or witness testimony, White jurors are more likely to treat similarly situated Black and White defendants the same way").
See also Sommers & Ellsworth, White Juror Bias: An Investigation of Prejudice Against Black Defendants in the American Courtroom, 7 Psychology, Pub.
Pol'y, & L. 201, 222 (2001); Sommers & Ellsworth, How Much Do We Really Know About Race and Juries?
A Review of Social Science Theory and Research, 78 Chi.-Kent L. Rev. 997, 1013-1014, 1027 (2003); Schuller, Kazoleas, & Kawakami, The Impact of Prejudice Screening Procedures on Racial Bias in the Courtroom, 33 Law & Human Behavior 320, 326 (2009); Cohn, Bucolo, Pride, & Somers, Reducing White Juror Bias: The Role of Race Salience and Racial Attitudes, 39 J. Applied Soc.
Psychology 1953, 1964-1965 (2009).
Footnote 10
It is worth noting that, even if voir dire were entirely ineffective at detecting racial bias (a proposition no one defends), that still would not suffice to distinguish this case from Warger v. Shauers, 574 U. S. ___ (2014).
After all, the allegation in Warger was that the foreperson had entirely circumvented voir dire by lying in order to shield her bias.
The Court, nevertheless, concluded that even where "jurors lie in voir dire in a way that conceals bias, juror impartiality is adequately assured" through other means.
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 10).
Footnote 11
The majority's reliance on footnote 3 of Warger, ante, at 12-13, is unavailing.
In that footnote, the Court noted that some "cases of juror bias" might be "so extreme" as to prompt the Court to "consider whether the usual safeguards are or are not sufficient to protect the integrity of the process."
574 U. S., at ___-___, n. 3 (slip op., at 10-11, n. 3) (emphasis added).
Considering this question is very different from adopting a constitutionally based exception to long-established no-impeachment rules.
Footnote 12
In addition, those cases did not involve a challenge to a long-established evidence rule.
As such, they offer little guidance in performing the analysis required by this case.
Footnote 13
See Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473 U. S. 432, 440 (1985).
Footnote 14
See, e.g., United States v. Armstrong, 517 U. S. 456, 464 (1996); Burlington Northern R. Co. v. Ford, 504 U. S. 648, 651 (1992); New Orleans v. Dukes, 427 U. S. 297, 303 (1976) (per curiam).
Footnote 15
The majority's emphasis on the unique harms of racial bias will not succeed at cabining the novel exception to no-impeachment rules, but it may succeed at putting other kinds of rules under threat.
For example, the majority approvingly refers to the widespread rules limiting attorneys' contact with jurors.
Ante, at 17-18.
But under the reasoning of the majority opinion, it is not clear why such rules should be enforced when they come into conflict with a defendant's attempt to introduce evidence of racial bias.
For instance, what will happen when a lawyer obtains clear evidence of racist statements by contacting jurors in violation of a local rule?
(Something similar happened in Tanner.
483 U. S., at 126.)
It remains to be seen whether rules of this type--or other rules which exclude probative evidence, such as evidentiary privileges--will be allowed to stand in the way of the "imperative to purge racial prejudice from the administration of justice."
Ante, at 13.
RAY WHITE, ET AL. v. DANIEL T. PAULY, AS PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE OF THE ESTATE OF SAMUEL PAULY, DECEASED ET AL., (2017)
No. 16-67
Argued:     Decided: January 9, 2017
Per Curiam.
This case addresses the situation of an officer who--having arrived late at an ongoing police action and having witnessed shots being fired by one of several individuals in a house surrounded by other officers--shoots and kills an armed occupant of the house without first giving a warning.
According to the District Court and the Court of Appeals, the record, when viewed in the light most favorable to respondents, shows the following.
Respondent Daniel Pauly was involved in a road-rage incident on a highway near Santa Fe, New Mexico.
814 F. 3d 1060, 1064-1065 (CA10 2016).
It was in the evening, and it was raining.
The two women involved called 911 to report Daniel as a " 'drunk driver' " who was " 'swerving all crazy.' "
Id., at 1065.
The women then followed Daniel down the highway, close behind him and with their bright lights on.
Daniel, feeling threatened, pulled his truck over at an off-ramp to confront them.
After a brief, nonviolent encounter, Daniel drove a short distance to a secluded house where he lived with his brother, Samuel Pauly.
Sometime between 9 p.m. and 10 p.m., Officer Kevin Truesdale was dispatched to respond to the women's 911 call.
Truesdale, arriving after Daniel had already left the scene, interviewed the two women at the off-ramp.
The women told Truesdale that Daniel had been driving recklessly and gave his license plate number to Truesdale.
The state police dispatcher identified the plate as being registered to the Pauly brothers' address.
After the women left, Officer Truesdale was joined at the off-ramp by Officers Ray White and Michael Mariscal.
The three agreed there was insufficient probable cause to arrest Daniel.
Still, the officers decided to speak with Daniel to (1) get his side of the story, (2) " 'make sure nothing else happened,' " and (3) find out if he was intoxicated.
Id., at 1065.
The officers split up.
White stayed at the off-ramp in case Daniel returned.
Truesdale and Mariscal drove in separate patrol cars to the Pauly brothers' address, less than a half mile away.
Record 215.
Neither officer turned on his flashing lights.
When Officers Mariscal and Truesdale arrived at the address they had received from the dispatcher, they found two different houses, the first with no lights on inside and a second one behind it on a hill.
Id., at 217, 246.
Lights were on in the second one.
The officers parked their cars near the first house.
They examined a vehicle parked near that house but did not find Daniel's truck.
Id., at 310.
Officers Mariscal and Truesdale noticed the lights on in the second house and approached it in a covert manner to maintain officer safety.
Both used their flashlights in an intermittent manner.
Truesdale alone turned on his flashlight once they got close to the house's front door.
Upon reaching the house, the officers found Daniel's pickup truck and spotted two men moving around inside the residence.
Truesdale and Mariscal radioed White, who left the off-ramp to join them.
At approximately 11 p.m., the Pauly brothers became aware of the officers' presence and yelled out " 'Who are you?' "
and " 'What do you want?' "
814 F. 3d, at 1066.
In response, Officers Mariscal and Truesdale laughed and responded: " 'Hey, (expletive), we got you surrounded.
Come out or we're coming in.' "
Ibid.
Truesdale shouted once: " 'Open the door, State Police, open the door.' "
Ibid.
Mariscal also yelled: " 'Open the door, open the door.' "
Ibid.
The Pauly brothers heard someone yelling, " 'We're coming in.
We're coming in.' "
Ibid.
Neither Samuel nor Daniel heard the officers identify themselves as state police.
Record 81-82.
The brothers armed themselves, Samuel with a handgun and Daniel with a shotgun.
One of the brothers yelled at the police officers that " 'We have guns.' "
814 F. 3d, at 1066.
The officers saw someone run to the back of the house, so Officer Truesdale positioned himself behind the house and shouted " 'Open the door, come outside.' "
Ibid.
Officer White had parked at the first house and was walking up to its front door when he heard shouting from the second house.
He half-jogged, half-walked to the Paulys' house, arriving "just as one of the brothers said: 'We have guns.' "
Ibid.; see also Civ.
No. 12-1311 (D NM, Feb. 5, 2014), App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
75-78.
When White heard that statement, he drew his gun and took cover behind a stone wall 50 feet from the front of the house.
Officer Mariscal took cover behind a pickup truck.
Just "a few seconds" after the "We have guns" statement, Daniel stepped part way out of the back door and fired two shotgun blasts while screaming loudly.
814 F. 3d, at 1066-1067.
A few seconds after those shots, Samuel opened the front window and pointed a handgun in Officer White's direction.
Officer Mariscal fired immediately at Samuel but missed. "
'Four to five seconds' " later, White shot and killed Samuel.
Id., at 1067.
The District Court denied the officers' motions for summary judgment, and the facts are viewed in the light most favorable to the Paulys.
Mullenix v. Luna, 577 U. S. ___, ___, n. (2015) (per curiam) (slip op., at 2, n.).
Because this case concerns the defense of qualified immunity, however, the Court considers only the facts that were knowable to the defendant officers.
Kingsley v. Hendrickson, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 9).
Samuel's estate and Daniel filed suit against, inter alia, Officers Mariscal, Truesdale, and White.
One of the claims was that the officers were liable under Rev. Stat.
§1979, 42 U. S. C. §1983, for violating Samuel's Fourth Amendment right to be free from excessive force.
All three officers moved for summary judgment on qualified immunity grounds.
White in particular argued that the Pauly brothers could not show that White's use of force violated the Fourth Amendment and, regardless, that Samuel's Fourth Amendment right to be free from deadly force under the circumstances of this case was not clearly established.
The District Court denied qualified immunity.
A divided panel of the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit affirmed.
As to Officers Mariscal and Truesdale, the court held that "[a]ccepting as true plaintiffs' version of the facts, a reasonable person in the officers' position should have understood their conduct would cause Samuel and Daniel Pauly to defend their home and could result in the commission of deadly force against Samuel Pauly by Officer White."
814 F. 3d, at 1076.
The panel majority analyzed Officer White's claim separately from the other officers because "Officer White did not participate in the events leading up to the armed confrontation, nor was he there to hear the other officers ordering the brothers to 'Come out or we're coming in.' "
Ibid.
Despite the fact that "Officer White . . . arrived late on the scene and heard only 'We have guns' . . . before taking cover behind a stone wall," the majority held that a jury could have concluded that White's use of deadly force was not reasonable.
Id., at 1077, 1082.
The majority also decided that this rule--that a reasonable officer in White's position would believe that a warning was required despite the threat of serious harm--was clearly established at the time of Samuel's death.
The Court of Appeals' ruling relied on general statements from this Court's case law that (1) "the reasonableness of an officer's use of force depends, in part, on whether the officer was in danger at the precise moment that he used force" and (2) "if the suspect threatens the officer with a weapon[,] deadly force may be used if necessary to prevent escape, and if[,] where feasible, some warning has been given."
Id., at 1083 (citing, inter alia, Tennessee v. Garner, 471 U. S. 1 (1985), and Graham v. Connor, 490 U. S. 386 (1989); emphasis deleted; internal quotation marks and alterations omitted).
The court concluded that a reasonable officer in White's position would have known that, since the Paulys could not have shot him unless he moved from his position behind a stone wall, he could not have used deadly force without first warning Samuel Pauly to drop his weapon.
Judge Moritz dissented, contending that the "majority impermissibly second-guesses" Officer White's quick choice to use deadly force.
814 F. 3d, at 1084.
Judge Moritz explained that the majority also erred by defining the clearly established law at too high a level of generality, in contravention of this Court's precedent.
The officers petitioned for rehearing en banc, which 6 of the 12 judges on the Court of Appeals voted to grant.
In a dissent from denial of rehearing, Judge Hartz noted that he was "unaware of any clearly established law that suggests . . . that an officer . . . who faces an occupant pointing a firearm in his direction must refrain from firing his weapon but, rather, must identify himself and shout a warning while pinned down, kneeling behind a rock wall."
817 F. 3d 715, 718 (CA10 2016).
Judge Hartz expressed his hope that "the Supreme Court can clarify the governing law."
Id., at 719.
The officers petitioned for certiorari.
The petition is now granted, and the judgment is vacated: Officer White did not violate clearly established law on the record described by the Court of Appeals panel.
Qualified immunity attaches when an official's conduct " 'does not violate clearly established statutory or constitutional rights of which a reasonable person would have known.' "
Mullenix v. Luna, 577 U. S., at ___-___ (slip op., at 4-5).
While this Court's case law " 'do[es] not require a case directly on point' " for a right to be clearly established, " 'existing precedent must have placed the statutory or constitutional question beyond debate.' "
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).
In other words, immunity protects " 'all but the plainly incompetent or those who knowingly violate the law.' "
Ibid.
In the last five years, this Court has issued a number of opinions reversing federal courts in qualified immunity cases.
See, e.g., City and County of San Francisco v. Sheehan, 575 U. S. ___, ___, n. 3 (2015) (slip op., at 10, n.3) (collecting cases).
The Court has found this necessary both because qualified immunity is important to " 'society as a whole,' " ibid., and because as " 'an immunity from suit,' " qualified immunity " 'is effectively lost if a case is erroneously permitted to go to trial,' " Pearson v. Callahan, 555 U. S. 223, 231 (2009).
Today, it is again necessary to reiterate the longstanding principle that "clearly established law" should not be defined "at a high level of generality."
Ashcroft v. al-Kidd, 563 U. S. 731, 742 (2011).
As this Court explained decades ago, the clearly established law must be "particularized" to the facts of the case.
Anderson v. Creighton, 483 U. S. 635, 640 (1987).
Otherwise, "[p]laintiffs would be able to convert the rule of qualified immunity . . . into a rule of virtually unqualified liability simply by alleging violation of extremely abstract rights."
Id., at 639.
The panel majority misunderstood the "clearly established" analysis: It failed to identify a case where an officer acting under similar circumstances as Officer White was held to have violated the Fourth Amendment.
Instead, the majority relied on Graham, Garner, and their Court of Appeals progeny, which--as noted above--lay out excessive-force principles at only a general level.
Of course, "general statements of the law are not inherently incapable of giving fair and clear warning" to officers, United States v. Lanier, 520 U. S. 259, 271 (1997), but "in the light of pre-existing law the unlawfulness must be apparent," Anderson v. Creighton, supra, at 640.
For that reason, we have held that Garner and Graham do not by themselves create clearly established law outside "an obvious case."
Brosseau v. Haugen, 543 U. S. 194, 199 (2004) (per curiam); see also Plumhoff v. Rickard, 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 13) (emphasizing that Garner and Graham "are 'cast at a high level of generality' ").
This is not a case where it is obvious that there was a violation of clearly established law under Garner and Graham.
Of note, the majority did not conclude that White's conduct--such as his failure to shout a warning--constituted a run-of-the-mill Fourth Amendment violation.
Indeed, it recognized that "this case presents a unique set of facts and circumstances" in light of White's late arrival on the scene.
814 F. 3d, at 1077.
This alone should have been an important indication to the majority that White's conduct did not violate a "clearly established" right.
Clearly established federal law does not prohibit a reasonable officer who arrives late to an ongoing police action in circumstances like this from assuming that proper procedures, such as officer identification, have already been followed.
No settled Fourth Amendment principle requires that officer to second-guess the earlier steps already taken by his or her fellow officers in instances like the one White confronted here.
On the record described by the Court of Appeals, Officer White did not violate clearly established law.
The Court notes, however, that respondents contend Officer White arrived on the scene only two minutes after Officers Truesdale and Mariscal and more than three minutes before Daniel's shots were fired.
On the assumption that the conduct of Officers Truesdale and Mariscal did not adequately alert the Paulys that they were police officers, respondents suggest that a reasonable jury could infer that White witnessed the other officers' deficient performance and should have realized that corrective action was necessary before using deadly force.
Brief in Opposition 11, 22, n. 5.
This Court expresses no position on this potential alternative ground for affirmance, as it appears that neither the District Court nor the Court of Appeals panel addressed it.
The Court also expresses no opinion on the question whether this ground was properly preserved or whether--in light of this Court's holding today--Officers Truesdale and Mariscal are entitled to qualified immunity.
For the foregoing reasons, the petition for certiorari is granted; the judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated; and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
Ginsburg, J., concurring
580 U. S. ____ (2017)
RAY WHITE, et al. v. DANIEL T. PAULY, as personal representative of the ESTATE OF SAMUEL
PAULY, DECEASED et al.
on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit
No. 16-67.
Decided January 9, 2017
Justice Ginsburg, concurring.
I join the Court's opinion on the understanding that it does not foreclose the denial of summary judgment to Officers Truesdale and Mariscal.
See 814 F. 3d 1060, 1068, 1073, 1074 (CA10 2016) (Court of Appeals emphasized, repeatedly, that fact disputes exist on question whether Truesdale and Mariscal "adequately identified themselves" as police officers before shouting "Come out or we're coming in" (internal quotation marks omitted)).
Further, as to Officer White, the Court, as I comprehend its opinion, leaves open the propriety of denying summary judgment based on fact disputes over when Officer White arrived at the scene, what he may have witnessed, and whether he had adequate time to identify himself and order Samuel Pauly to drop his weapon before Officer White shot Pauly.
Compare id., at 1080, with ante, at 8.
See also Civ.
No. 12-1311 (D NM, Feb. 5, 2014), pp. 7, and n. 5, 9, App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
75-76, and n. 5, 77 (suggesting that Officer White may have been on the scene when Officers Truesdale and Mariscal threatened to invade the Pauly home).
RAY WHITE, et al. v. DANIEL T. PAULY, as personal representative of the ESTATE OF SAMUEL PAULY, DECEASED et al.
on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit
No. 16-67.
Decided January 9, 2017
Per Curiam.
This case addresses the situation of an officer who--having arrived late at an ongoing police action and having witnessed shots being fired by one of several individuals in a house surrounded by other officers--shoots and kills an armed occupant of the house without first giving a warning.
According to the District Court and the Court of Appeals, the record, when viewed in the light most favorable to respondents, shows the following.
Respondent Daniel Pauly was involved in a road-rage incident on a highway near Santa Fe, New Mexico.
814 F. 3d 1060, 1064-1065 (CA10 2016).
It was in the evening, and it was raining.
The two women involved called 911 to report Daniel as a " 'drunk driver' " who was " 'swerving all crazy.' "
Id., at 1065.
The women then followed Daniel down the highway, close behind him and with their bright lights on.
Daniel, feeling threatened, pulled his truck over at an off-ramp to confront them.
After a brief, nonviolent encounter, Daniel drove a short distance to a secluded house where he lived with his brother, Samuel Pauly.
Sometime between 9 p.m. and 10 p.m., Officer Kevin Truesdale was dispatched to respond to the women's 911 call.
Truesdale, arriving after Daniel had already left the scene, interviewed the two women at the off-ramp.
The women told Truesdale that Daniel had been driving recklessly and gave his license plate number to Truesdale.
The state police dispatcher identified the plate as being registered to the Pauly brothers' address.
After the women left, Officer Truesdale was joined at the off-ramp by Officers Ray White and Michael Mariscal.
The three agreed there was insufficient probable cause to arrest Daniel.
Still, the officers decided to speak with Daniel to (1) get his side of the story, (2) " 'make sure nothing else happened,' " and (3) find out if he was intoxicated.
Id., at 1065.
The officers split up.
White stayed at the off-ramp in case Daniel returned.
Truesdale and Mariscal drove in separate patrol cars to the Pauly brothers' address, less than a half mile away.
Record 215.
Neither officer turned on his flashing lights.
When Officers Mariscal and Truesdale arrived at the address they had received from the dispatcher, they found two different houses, the first with no lights on inside and a second one behind it on a hill.
Id., at 217, 246.
Lights were on in the second one.
The officers parked their cars near the first house.
They examined a vehicle parked near that house but did not find Daniel's truck.
Id., at 310.
Officers Mariscal and Truesdale noticed the lights on in the second house and approached it in a covert manner to maintain officer safety.
Both used their flashlights in an intermittent manner.
Truesdale alone turned on his flashlight once they got close to the house's front door.
Upon reaching the house, the officers found Daniel's pickup truck and spotted two men moving around inside the residence.
Truesdale and Mariscal radioed White, who left the off-ramp to join them.
At approximately 11 p.m., the Pauly brothers became aware of the officers' presence and yelled out " 'Who are you?' "
and " 'What do you want?' "
814 F. 3d, at 1066.
In response, Officers Mariscal and Truesdale laughed and responded: " 'Hey, (expletive), we got you surrounded.
Come out or we're coming in.' "
Ibid.
Truesdale shouted once: " 'Open the door, State Police, open the door.' "
Ibid.
Mariscal also yelled: " 'Open the door, open the door.' "
Ibid.
The Pauly brothers heard someone yelling, " 'We're coming in.
We're coming in.' "
Ibid.
Neither Samuel nor Daniel heard the officers identify themselves as state police.
Record 81-82.
The brothers armed themselves, Samuel with a handgun and Daniel with a shotgun.
One of the brothers yelled at the police officers that " 'We have guns.' "
814 F. 3d, at 1066.
The officers saw someone run to the back of the house, so Officer Truesdale positioned himself behind the house and shouted " 'Open the door, come outside.' "
Ibid.
Officer White had parked at the first house and was walking up to its front door when he heard shouting from the second house.
He half-jogged, half-walked to the Paulys' house, arriving "just as one of the brothers said: 'We have guns.' "
Ibid.; see also Civ.
No. 12-1311 (D NM, Feb. 5, 2014), App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
75-78.
When White heard that statement, he drew his gun and took cover behind a stone wall 50 feet from the front of the house.
Officer Mariscal took cover behind a pickup truck.
Just "a few seconds" after the "We have guns" statement, Daniel stepped part way out of the back door and fired two shotgun blasts while screaming loudly.
814 F. 3d, at 1066-1067.
A few seconds after those shots, Samuel opened the front window and pointed a handgun in Officer White's direction.
Officer Mariscal fired immediately at Samuel but missed. "
'Four to five seconds' " later, White shot and killed Samuel.
Id., at 1067.
The District Court denied the officers' motions for summary judgment, and the facts are viewed in the light most favorable to the Paulys.
Mullenix v. Luna, 577 U. S. ___, ___, n. (2015) (per curiam) (slip op., at 2, n.).
Because this case concerns the defense of qualified immunity, however, the Court considers only the facts that were knowable to the defendant officers.
Kingsley v. Hendrickson, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 9).
Samuel's estate and Daniel filed suit against, inter alia, Officers Mariscal, Truesdale, and White.
One of the claims was that the officers were liable under Rev. Stat.
§1979, 42 U. S. C. §1983, for violating Samuel's Fourth Amendment right to be free from excessive force.
All three officers moved for summary judgment on qualified immunity grounds.
White in particular argued that the Pauly brothers could not show that White's use of force violated the Fourth Amendment and, regardless, that Samuel's Fourth Amendment right to be free from deadly force under the circumstances of this case was not clearly established.
The District Court denied qualified immunity.
A divided panel of the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit affirmed.
As to Officers Mariscal and Truesdale, the court held that "[a]ccepting as true plaintiffs' version of the facts, a reasonable person in the officers' position should have understood their conduct would cause Samuel and Daniel Pauly to defend their home and could result in the commission of deadly force against Samuel Pauly by Officer White."
814 F. 3d, at 1076.
The panel majority analyzed Officer White's claim separately from the other officers because "Officer White did not participate in the events leading up to the armed confrontation, nor was he there to hear the other officers ordering the brothers to 'Come out or we're coming in.' "
Ibid.
Despite the fact that "Officer White . . . arrived late on the scene and heard only 'We have guns' . . . before taking cover behind a stone wall," the majority held that a jury could have concluded that White's use of deadly force was not reasonable.
Id., at 1077, 1082.
The majority also decided that this rule--that a reasonable officer in White's position would believe that a warning was required despite the threat of serious harm--was clearly established at the time of Samuel's death.
The Court of Appeals' ruling relied on general statements from this Court's case law that (1) "the reasonableness of an officer's use of force depends, in part, on whether the officer was in danger at the precise moment that he used force" and (2) "if the suspect threatens the officer with a weapon[,] deadly force may be used if necessary to prevent escape, and if[,] where feasible, some warning has been given."
Id., at 1083 (citing, inter alia, Tennessee v. Garner, 471 U. S. 1 (1985), and Graham v. Connor, 490 U. S. 386 (1989); emphasis deleted; internal quotation marks and alterations omitted).
The court concluded that a reasonable officer in White's position would have known that, since the Paulys could not have shot him unless he moved from his position behind a stone wall, he could not have used deadly force without first warning Samuel Pauly to drop his weapon.
Judge Moritz dissented, contending that the "majority impermissibly second-guesses" Officer White's quick choice to use deadly force.
814 F. 3d, at 1084.
Judge Moritz explained that the majority also erred by defining the clearly established law at too high a level of generality, in contravention of this Court's precedent.
The officers petitioned for rehearing en banc, which 6 of the 12 judges on the Court of Appeals voted to grant.
In a dissent from denial of rehearing, Judge Hartz noted that he was "unaware of any clearly established law that suggests . . . that an officer . . . who faces an occupant pointing a firearm in his direction must refrain from firing his weapon but, rather, must identify himself and shout a warning while pinned down, kneeling behind a rock wall."
817 F. 3d 715, 718 (CA10 2016).
Judge Hartz expressed his hope that "the Supreme Court can clarify the governing law."
Id., at 719.
The officers petitioned for certiorari.
The petition is now granted, and the judgment is vacated: Officer White did not violate clearly established law on the record described by the Court of Appeals panel.
Qualified immunity attaches when an official's conduct " 'does not violate clearly established statutory or constitutional rights of which a reasonable person would have known.' "
Mullenix v. Luna, 577 U. S., at ___-___ (slip op., at 4-5).
While this Court's case law " 'do[es] not require a case directly on point' " for a right to be clearly established, " 'existing precedent must have placed the statutory or constitutional question beyond debate.' "
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).
In other words, immunity protects " 'all but the plainly incompetent or those who knowingly violate the law.' "
Ibid.
In the last five years, this Court has issued a number of opinions reversing federal courts in qualified immunity cases.
See, e.g., City and County of San Francisco v. Sheehan, 575 U. S. ___, ___, n. 3 (2015) (slip op., at 10, n.3) (collecting cases).
The Court has found this necessary both because qualified immunity is important to " 'society as a whole,' " ibid., and because as " 'an immunity from suit,' " qualified immunity " 'is effectively lost if a case is erroneously permitted to go to trial,' " Pearson v. Callahan, 555 U. S. 223, 231 (2009).
Today, it is again necessary to reiterate the longstanding principle that "clearly established law" should not be defined "at a high level of generality."
Ashcroft v. al-Kidd, 563 U. S. 731, 742 (2011).
As this Court explained decades ago, the clearly established law must be "particularized" to the facts of the case.
Anderson v. Creighton, 483 U. S. 635, 640 (1987).
Otherwise, "[p]laintiffs would be able to convert the rule of qualified immunity . . . into a rule of virtually unqualified liability simply by alleging violation of extremely abstract rights."
Id., at 639.
The panel majority misunderstood the "clearly established" analysis: It failed to identify a case where an officer acting under similar circumstances as Officer White was held to have violated the Fourth Amendment.
Instead, the majority relied on Graham, Garner, and their Court of Appeals progeny, which--as noted above--lay out excessive-force principles at only a general level.
Of course, "general statements of the law are not inherently incapable of giving fair and clear warning" to officers, United States v. Lanier, 520 U. S. 259, 271 (1997), but "in the light of pre-existing law the unlawfulness must be apparent," Anderson v. Creighton, supra, at 640.
For that reason, we have held that Garner and Graham do not by themselves create clearly established law outside "an obvious case."
Brosseau v. Haugen, 543 U. S. 194, 199 (2004) (per curiam); see also Plumhoff v. Rickard, 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 13) (emphasizing that Garner and Graham "are 'cast at a high level of generality' ").
This is not a case where it is obvious that there was a violation of clearly established law under Garner and Graham.
Of note, the majority did not conclude that White's conduct--such as his failure to shout a warning--constituted a run-of-the-mill Fourth Amendment violation.
Indeed, it recognized that "this case presents a unique set of facts and circumstances" in light of White's late arrival on the scene.
814 F. 3d, at 1077.
This alone should have been an important indication to the majority that White's conduct did not violate a "clearly established" right.
Clearly established federal law does not prohibit a reasonable officer who arrives late to an ongoing police action in circumstances like this from assuming that proper procedures, such as officer identification, have already been followed.
No settled Fourth Amendment principle requires that officer to second-guess the earlier steps already taken by his or her fellow officers in instances like the one White confronted here.
On the record described by the Court of Appeals, Officer White did not violate clearly established law.
The Court notes, however, that respondents contend Officer White arrived on the scene only two minutes after Officers Truesdale and Mariscal and more than three minutes before Daniel's shots were fired.
On the assumption that the conduct of Officers Truesdale and Mariscal did not adequately alert the Paulys that they were police officers, respondents suggest that a reasonable jury could infer that White witnessed the other officers' deficient performance and should have realized that corrective action was necessary before using deadly force.
Brief in Opposition 11, 22, n. 5.
This Court expresses no position on this potential alternative ground for affirmance, as it appears that neither the District Court nor the Court of Appeals panel addressed it.
The Court also expresses no opinion on the question whether this ground was properly preserved or whether--in light of this Court's holding today--Officers Truesdale and Mariscal are entitled to qualified immunity.
For the foregoing reasons, the petition for certiorari is granted; the judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated; and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
Ginsburg, J., concurring
580 U. S. ____ (2017)
RAY WHITE, et al. v. DANIEL T. PAULY, as personal representative of the ESTATE OF SAMUEL PAULY, DECEASED et al.
on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit
No. 16-67.
Decided January 9, 2017
Justice Ginsburg, concurring.
I join the Court's opinion on the understanding that it does not foreclose the denial of summary judgment to Officers Truesdale and Mariscal.
See 814 F. 3d 1060, 1068, 1073, 1074 (CA10 2016) (Court of Appeals emphasized, repeatedly, that fact disputes exist on question whether Truesdale and Mariscal "adequately identified themselves" as police officers before shouting "Come out or we're coming in" (internal quotation marks omitted)).
Further, as to Officer White, the Court, as I comprehend its opinion, leaves open the propriety of denying summary judgment based on fact disputes over when Officer White arrived at the scene, what he may have witnessed, and whether he had adequate time to identify himself and order Samuel Pauly to drop his weapon before Officer White shot Pauly.
Compare id., at 1080, with ante, at 8.
See also Civ.
No. 12-1311 (D NM, Feb. 5, 2014), pp. 7, and n. 5, 9, App.
to Pet.
for Cert.
75-76, and n. 5, 77 (suggesting that Officer White may have been on the scene when Officers Truesdale and Mariscal threatened to invade the Pauly home).
