Held: Because forfeiture pursuant to §853(a)(1) is limited to property the defendant himself actually acquired as the result of the crime, that provision does not permit forfeiture with regard to Terry Honeycutt, who had no ownership interest in his brother's store and did not personally benefit from the illegal sales. Pp. 3-11.

     (a) Section 853(a) limits forfeiture to property flowing from, §853(a)(1), or used in, §853(a)(2), the crime itself--providing the first clue that the statute does not countenance joint and several liability, which would require forfeiture of untainted property. It also defines forfeitable property solely in terms of personal possession or use. Section 853(a)(1), the provision at issue, limits forfeiture to property the defendant "obtained, directly or indirectly, as the result of" the crime. Neither the dictionary definition nor the common usage of the word "obtain" supports the conclusion that an individual "obtains" property that was acquired by someone else. And the adverbs "directly" and "indirectly" refer to how a defendant obtains the property; they do not negate the requirement that he obtain it at all. Sections 853(a)(2) and 853(a)(3) are in accord with this reading. Pp. 3-7.

     (b) Joint and several liability is also contrary to several other provisions of §853. Section 853(c), which applies to property "described in subsection (a)," applies to tainted property only. See Luis v. United States, 578 U. S. ___, ___. Section §853(e)(1) permits pretrial asset freezes to preserve the availability of property forfeitable under subsection (a), provided there is probable cause to think that a defendant has committed an offense triggering forfeiture and "the property at issue has the requisite connection to that crime." Kaley v. United States, 571 U. S. ___, ___. Section 853(d) establishes a "rebuttable presumption" that property is subject to forfeiture only if the Government proves that the defendant acquired the property "during the period of the violation" and "there was no likely source for" the property but the crime. These provisions reinforce the statute's application to tainted property acquired by the defendant and are thus incompatible with joint and several liability. Joint and several liability would also render futile §853(p)--the sole provision of §853 that permits the Government to confiscate property untainted by the crime. Pp. 7-9.

     (c) The plain text and structure of §853 leave no doubt that Congress did not, as the Government claims, incorporate the principle that conspirators are legally responsible for each other's foreseeable actions in furtherance of their common plan. See Pinkerton v. United States, 328 U. S. 640. Congress provided just one way for the Government to recoup substitute property when the tainted property itself is unavailable--the procedures outlined in §853(p). And as is clear from its text and structure, §853 maintains traditional in rem forfeiture's focus on tainted property unless one of §853(p)'s preconditions exists. Pp. 9-10.