Petitioners--Timothy Catlett, Russell Overton, Levy Rouse, Kelvin Smith, Charles and Christopher Turner, and Clifton Yarborough--and several others were indicted for the kidnaping, robbery, and murder of Catherine Fuller. At trial, the Government advanced the theory that Fuller was attacked by a large group of individuals. Its evidentiary centerpiece consisted of the testimony of Calvin Alston and Harry Bennett, who confessed to participating in a group attack and cooperated with the Government in return for leniency. Several other Government witnesses corroborated aspects of Alston's and Bennett's testimony. Melvin Montgomery testified that he was in a park among a group of people, heard someone say they were "going to get that one," saw petitioner Overton pointing to Fuller, and saw several persons, including some petitioners, cross the street in her direction. Maurice Thomas testified that he saw the attack, identified some petitioners as participants, and later overheard petitioner Catlett say that they "had to kill her." Carrie Eleby and Linda Jacobs testified that they heard screams coming from an alley where a "gang of boys" was beating someone near a garage, approached the group, and saw some petitioners participating in the attack. Finally, the Government played a videotape of petitioner Yarborough's statement to detectives, describing how he was part of a large group that carried out the attack. None of the defendants rebutted the prosecution witnesses' claims that Fuller was killed in a group attack. The seven petitioners were convicted.

          Long after their convictions became final, petitioners discovered that the Government had withheld evidence from the defense at the time of trial. In postconviction proceedings, they argued that seven specific pieces of withheld evidence were both favorable to the defense and material to their guilt under Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83. This evidence included the identity of a man seen running into the alley after the murder and stopping near the garage where Fuller's body had already been found; the statement of a passerby who claimed to hear groans coming from a closed garage; and evidence tending to impeach witnesses Eleby, Jacobs, and Thomas. The D. C. Superior Court rejected petitioners' Brady claims, finding that the withheld evidence was not material. The D. C. Court of Appeals affirmed.

Held: The withheld evidence is not material under Brady. Pp. 9-14.

     (a) The Government does not contest petitioners' claim that the withheld evidence was "favorable to the defense." Petitioners and the Government, however, do contest the materiality of the undisclosed Brady information. Such "evidence is 'material' . . . when there is a reasonable probability that, had the evidence been disclosed, the result of the proceeding would have been different." Cone v. Bell, 556 U. S. 449, 469-470. "A 'reasonable probability' of a different result" is one in which the suppressed evidence " 'undermines confidence in the outcome of the trial.' " Kyles v. Whitley, 514 U. S. 419, 434. To make that determination, this Court "evaluate[s]" the withheld evidence "in the context of the entire record." United States v. Agurs, 427 U. S. 97, 112. Pp. 9-11.

     (b) Petitioners' main argument is that, had they known about the withheld evidence, they could have challenged the Government's basic group attack theory by raising an alternative theory, namely, that a single perpetrator (or two at most) had attacked Fuller. Considering the withheld evidence "in the context of the entire record," Agurs, supra, at 112, that evidence is too little, too weak, or too distant from the main evidentiary points to meet Brady's standards.