Held: The withheld evidence is not material under Brady. Pp. 9-14.

     (a) The Government does not contest petitioners' claim that the withheld evidence was "favorable to the defense." Petitioners and the Government, however, do contest the materiality of the undisclosed Brady information. Such "evidence is 'material' . . . when there is a reasonable probability that, had the evidence been disclosed, the result of the proceeding would have been different." Cone v. Bell, 556 U. S. 449, 469-470. "A 'reasonable probability' of a different result" is one in which the suppressed evidence " 'undermines confidence in the outcome of the trial.' " Kyles v. Whitley, 514 U. S. 419, 434. To make that determination, this Court "evaluate[s]" the withheld evidence "in the context of the entire record." United States v. Agurs, 427 U. S. 97, 112. Pp. 9-11.

     (b) Petitioners' main argument is that, had they known about the withheld evidence, they could have challenged the Government's basic group attack theory by raising an alternative theory, namely, that a single perpetrator (or two at most) had attacked Fuller. Considering the withheld evidence "in the context of the entire record," Agurs, supra, at 112, that evidence is too little, too weak, or too distant from the main evidentiary points to meet Brady's standards.

     A group attack was the very cornerstone of the Government's case, and virtually every witness to the crime agreed that Fuller was killed by a large group of perpetrators. It is not reasonably probable that the withheld evidence could have led to a different result at trial. Petitioners' problem is that their current alternative theory would have had to persuade the jury that both Alston and Bennett falsely confessed to being active participants in a group attack that never occurred; that Yarborough falsely implicated himself in that group attack and yet gave a highly similar account of how it occurred; that Thomas, an otherwise disinterested witness, wholly fabricated his story; that both Eleby and Jacobs likewise testified to witnessing a group attack that did not occur; and that Montgomery in fact did not see petitioners and others, as a group, identify Fuller as a target and leave together to rob her.

     As for the undisclosed impeachment evidence, the record shows that it was largely cumulative of impeachment evidence petitioners already had and used at trial. This is not to suggest that impeachment evidence is immaterial with respect to a witness who has already been impeached with other evidence, see Wearry v. Cain, 577 U. S. ___, ___-___. But in the context of this trial, with respect to these witnesses, the cumulative effect of the withheld evidence is insufficient to undermine confidence in the jury's verdict, see Smith v. Cain, 565 U. S. 73, 75-76. Pp. 11-14.