Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U. S. 68, 83, clearly established that when an indigent "defendant demonstrates . . . that his sanity at the time of the offense is to be a significant fact at trial, the State must" provide the defendant with "access to a competent psychiatrist who will conduct an appropriate examination and assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
The court granted the motion and the State convened a commission, which concluded that McWilliams was competent to stand trial and had not been suffering from mental illness at the time of the alleged offense.
He concluded that McWilliams was likely exaggerating his symptoms, but nonetheless appeared to have some genuine neuropsychological problems.
On appeal, McWilliams argued that the trial court denied him the right to meaningful expert assistance guarantee by Ake.
The Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed McWilliams' conviction and sentence, holding that Dr. Goff's examination satisfied Ake's requirements.
On federal habeas review, a Magistrate Judge also found that the Goff examination satisfied Ake and, therefore, that the State Court of Criminal Appeals' decision was not contrary to, or an unreasonable application of, clearly established federal law.
Ake clearly established that when certain threshold criteria are met, the state must provide a defendant with access to a mental health expert who is sufficiently available to the defense and independent from the prosecution to effectively "conduct an appropriate examination and assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
Even if the episodic help of an outside volunteer could satisfy Ake, the State does not refer to any specific record facts that indicate that the volunteer psychologist was available to the defense at the judicial sentencing proceeding.
Third, contrary to Alabama's suggestion, the record indicates that McWilliams did not get all the mental health assistance that he requested.
It requires that the State provide the defense with "access to a competent psychiatrist who will conduct an appropriate [1] examination and assist in [2] evaluation, [3] preparation, and [4] presentation of the defense."
Even assuming that Alabama met the examination requirement, it did not meet any of the other three.
No expert helped the defense prepare and present arguments that might, e.g., have explained that McWilliams' purported malingering was not necessarily inconsistent with mental illness.
McWilliams challenged his sentence on appeal, arguing that the State had failed to provide him with the expert mental health assistance the Constitution requires, but the Alabama courts refused to grant relief.
We hold that it was.
Our decision in Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U. S. 68 (1985), clearly established that, when certain threshold criteria are met, the State must provide an indigent defendant with access to a mental health expert who is sufficiently available to the defense and independent from the prosecution to effectively "assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
Petitioner in this case did not receive that assistance.
McWilliams and the State of Alabama agree that Ake (which this Court decided in February 1985) sets forth the applicable constitutional standards.
The Court began by stating that the "issue in this case is whether the Constitution requires that an indigent defendant have access to the psychiatric examination and assistance necessary to prepare an effective defense based on his mental condition, when his sanity at the time of the offense is seriously in question."
The Court said it would consider that issue within the framework of earlier cases granting "an indigent defendant . . . a fair opportunity to present his defense" and "to participate meaningfully in a judicial proceeding in which his liberty is at stake."
The Court then wrote that "when the State has made the defendant's mental condition relevant to his criminal culpability and to the punishment he might suffer, the assistance of a psychiatrist may well be crucial to the defendant's ability to marshal his defense."
The Court concluded: "We therefore hold that when a defendant demonstrates to the trial judge that his sanity at the time of the offense is to be a significant factor at trial, the State must, at a minimum, assure the defendant access to a competent psychiatrist who will conduct an appropriate examination and assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense. . . .
Our concern is that the indigent defendant have access to a competent psychiatrist for the[se] purpose[s]."
Ake thus clearly establishes that when its threshold criteria are met, a State must provide a mental health professional capable of performing a certain role: "conduct[ing] an appropriate examination and assist[ing] in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
The three members, all psychiatrists, concluded that McWilliams was competent to stand trial and that he had not been suffering from mental illness at the time of the alleged offense.
One of them, Dr. Kamal Nagi, wrote that "Mr. McWilliams is grossly exaggerating his psychological symptoms to mimic mental illness."
Dr. Nagi noted that McWilliams' performance on one of the tests "suggested that [McWilliams] had exaggerated his endorsement of symptoms of illness and the profile was considered a 'fake bad.' "
The prosecution reintroduced evidence from the guilt phase and called a police officer to testify that McWilliams had a prior conviction.
Both testified that McWilliams, when a child, had suffered multiple serious head injuries.
McWilliams also described his history of psychiatric and psychological evaluations, reading from the prearrest report of one psychologist, who concluded that McWilliams had a "blatantly psychotic thought disorder" and needed inpatient treatment.
Dr. Nagi testified that he had found no evidence of psychosis, but did not appear to be aware of McWilliams' history of head trauma.
Dr. Poythress testified that one of the tests that McWilliams took was "clinically invalid" because the test's "validity scales" indicated that McWilliams had exaggerated or faked his symptoms.
The report concluded that McWilliams presented "some diagnostic dilemmas."
The report added that McWilliams' "obvious neuropsychological deficit" could be related to his "low frustration tolerance and impulsivity," and suggested a diagnosis of "organic personality syndrome."
The prison records indicated that McWilliams was taking an assortment of psychotropic medications including Desyrel, Librium, and an antipsychotic, Mellaril.
He also stated that "[a]t that time, The Court will entertain any motion that you may have with some other person to review" the new material.
Defense counsel protested that "there is no way that I can go through this material," but the judge immediately added, "Well, I will give you the opportunity. . . .
He said that "the abritrary [sic] position taken by this Court regarding the Defendant's right to present mitigating circumstances is unconscionable resulting in this proceeding being a mockery."
He added that "further participation would be tantamount to exceptance [sic] of the Court's ruling."
We believe that he has the type of diagnosed illness that we pointed out earlier for The Court and have mentioned for The Court.
The prosecutor then offered his closing statement, in which he argued that there were "no mitigating circumstances."
Defense counsel replied that he "would be pleased to respond to [the prosecutor's] remarks that there are no mitigating circumstances in this case if I were able to have time to produce . . . any mitigating circumstances."
The trial judge then said that he had reviewed the records himself and found evidence that McWilliams was faking and manipulative.
Defense counsel attempted to contest that point, which led to the following exchange:
THE COURT: As I said, on the record earlier, Mr. Sogol, and I don't want to argue or belabor this, but I would have given you the opportunity to make a motion to present someone to evaluate that.
MR. SOGOL: Your Honor gave me no time in which to do that.
It found that McWilliams "was not and is not psychotic," and that "the preponderance of the evidence from these tests and reports show [McWilliams] to be feigning, faking, and manipulative."
The court wrote that even if McWilliams' mental health issues "did rise to the level of a mitigating circumstance, the aggravating circumstances would far outweigh this as a mitigating circumstance."
McWilliams appealed, arguing that the trial court had denied him the right to meaningful expert assistance guaranteed by Ake.
It wrote that Ake's requirements "are met when the State provides the [defendant] with a competent psychiatrist."
The court added that "[t]here is no indication in the record that [McWilliams] could not have called Dr. Goff as a witness to explain his findings or that he even tried to contact the psychiatrist to discuss his findings," ibid.; that "the trial court indicated that it would have considered a motion to present an expert to evaluate this report" had one been made, ibid.; and that there was "no prejudice by the trial court's denial of [McWilliams'] motion for continuance," id., at 993.
He wrote that McWilliams had "received the assistance required by Ake" because Dr. Goff "completed the testing" that McWilliams requested.
First, no one denies that the conditions that trigger application of Ake are present.
Even if the episodic assistance of an outside volunteer could relieve the State of its constitutional duty to ensure an indigent defendant access to meaningful expert assistance, no lower court has held or suggested that Dr. Rosenszweig was available to help, or might have helped, McWilliams at the judicial sentencing proceeding, the proceeding here at issue.
Alabama does not refer to any specific record facts that indicate that she was available to the defense at this time.
Third, Alabama argues that Ake's requirements are irrelevant because McWilliams "never asked for more expert assistance" than he got, "even though the trial court gave him the opportunity to do so."
Thus the record, in our view, indicates that McWilliams did request additional help from mental health experts.
McWilliams would have us answer "yes" on the ground that Ake clearly established that a State must provide an indigent defendant with a qualified mental health expert retained specifically for the defense team, not a neutral expert available to both parties.
He points to language in Ake that seems to foresee that consequence.
As discussed above, Ake clearly established that a defendant must receive the assistance of a mental health expert who is sufficiently available to the defense and independent from the prosecution to effectively "assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense."
40 (respondent conceding that "this issue really has been mooted over the last 30-some-odd years because of statutory changes").
We recognize that we granted petitioner's first question presented--which addressed whether Ake clearly established a right to an independent expert--and not his second, which raised more case-specific concerns.
As we explain below, our determination that Ake clearly established that a defendant must receive the assistance of a mental health expert who is sufficiently available to the defense and independent from the prosecution to effectively "assist in evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense," 470 U. S., at 83, is sufficient to resolve the case.
In fact, the State devoted an entire section of its merits brief to explaining why it thought that "[n]o matter how the Court resolves the [independent expert] question, the court of appeals correctly denied the habeas petition."
The Alabama appeals court held that "the requirements of Ake v. Oklahoma . . . are met when the State provides the [defendant] with a competent psychiatrist.
We are willing to assume that Alabama met the examination portion of this requirement by providing for Dr. Goff's examination of McWilliams.
Neither Dr. Goff nor any other expert helped the defense prepare and present arguments that might, for example, have explained that McWilliams' purported malingering was not necessarily inconsistent with mental illness (as an expert later testified in postconviction proceedings, see P. C. T. 936-943).
The dissent emphasizes that Dr. Goff was never ordered to do any of these things by the trial court.
(Indeed, given that timeframe, we do not see how Dr. Goff or any other expert could have satisfied the latter three portions of Ake's requirements even had he been instructed to do so.)
Since Alabama's provision of mental health assistance fell so dramatically short of what Ake requires, we must conclude that the Alabama court decision affirming McWilliams's conviction and sentence was "contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law."
There is reason to think that it could have.
If McWilliams had the assistance of an expert to explain that "[m]alingering is not inconsistent with serious mental illness," Brief for American Psychiatric Association et al. as Amici Curiae 20, he might have been able to alter the judge's perception of the case.
We granted review in this case to decide a straightforward legal question on which the lower courts are divided: whether our decision in Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U. S. 68 (1985), clearly established that an indigent defendant whose mental health will be a significant factor at trial is entitled to the assistance of a psychiatric expert who is a member of the defense team instead of a neutral expert who is available to assist both the prosecution and the defense.1
The answer to that question is plain: Ake did not clearly establish that a defendant is entitled to an expert who is a member of the defense team.
The Court avoids that outcome by means of a most unseemly maneuver.
And the Court decides that fact-bound question without giving Alabama a fair opportunity to brief the issue.
It requires habeas petitioners to "show that the state court's ruling on the claim . . . was so lacking in justification that there was an error well understood and comprehended in existing law beyond any possibility for fairminded disagreement."
In Ake, we held that a defendant must be provided "access to a competent psychiatrist" in two circumstances: first, "when [the] defendant demonstrates to the trial judge that his sanity at the time of the offense is to be a significant factor at trial," and, second, at the sentencing phase of a capital trial, "when the State presents psychiatric evidence of the defendant's future dangerousness."
Did Ake clearly establish that a defendant in the two situations just noted must be provided with the services of an expert who functions solely as a dedicated member of the defense team as opposed to a neutral expert who examines the defendant, reports his or her conclusions to the court and the parties, and is available to assist and testify for both sides?
Explaining the need for the appointment of a psychiatric expert, Ake noted that a psychiatrist can "assist in preparing the cross-examination of a State's psychiatric witnesses" and would "know the probative questions to ask of the opposing party's psychiatrists and how to interpret their answers."
And when Ake discussed expert assistance during capital sentencing, the Court said that it is important for a defendant to "offer a well-informed expert's opposing view" in the form of "responsive psychiatric testimony."
Ake also explained that factfinding is improved when evidence is offered by "psychiatrists for each party."
On the contrary, Ake expressly stated that a State need only provide for a single psychiatric expert to be selected by the trial judge.
Ake also acknowledged that one of our prior cases, United States ex rel.
While Ake also declared that Baldi did not limit the Court "in considering whether fundamental fairness today requires a different result," 470 U. S., at 85, Ake did not explicitly overrule Baldi, and ultimately its treatment of that case was "most ambiguous," LaFave ยง8.2, at 450, n. 124.
in No. 83-5424 p. 21 (arguing that Ake's rights were violated even under Baldi).
If the Justices who joined Justice Marshall's opinion for the Court had agreed that a defense-team expert must be appointed, it would have been a simple matter for the Court to say so expressly.
The most reasonable conclusion to draw from the Court's silence is that the exact type of expert required by Ake has remained "an open question in our jurisprudence."
At the time the Alabama court addressed McWilliams's Ake claim on the merits, some courts had held that Ake requires the appointment of a defense-team expert.
The Fifth Circuit had held that a defense-team expert is not required.
1989) ("[D]ue process does not entitle [Ake] to a state-funded psychiatric expert to support his claim; rather, due process requires that he have access to a competent and impartial psychiatrist").
Two Eleventh Circuit panels held that a neutral expert suffices, see Magwood v. Smith, 791 F. 2d 1438, 1443 (1986) (Ake satisfied where neutral, court-appointed experts examined the defendant and testified); Clisby v. Jones, 907 F. 2d 1047, 1050 (1990) (per curiam) ("The state provided a duly qualified psychiatrist not beholden to the prosecution and, therefore, met its obligation under Ake"), reh'g en banc, 960 F. 2d 925, 928-934 (1992) (rejecting Ake claim on other grounds).
Cowley v. Stricklin, 929 F. 2d 640, 644 (1991) (holding that due process requires more than a neutral expert).
A Sixth Circuit panel held that Ake does not require appointment of a defense-team expert.
And when the Sixth Circuit reviewed that decision en banc, its holding was fractured, but 7 of the 13 judges expressed the view that Ake requires only a neutral, court-appointed expert.3 919 F. 2d 1091, 1110, 1117-1120, 1131-1132 (1990).
L. Rev. 1, 16 (2012) (Ake held that "the defense had the right of access to an expert, but the Court did not conclude that access had to be a defense expert"); Greeley, The Plight of Indigent Defendants in a Computer-Based Age: Maintaining the Adversarial System by Granting Defendants Access to Computer Experts, 16 Va.
L. Rev. 121, 127 (1989) (Ake "left unanswered many questions," including "whether the defendant is entitled to 'neutral' or 'partisan' assistance"); Dubia, The Defense Right to Psychiatric Assistance in Light of Ake v. Oklahoma, 1987 Army Lawyer 15, 19-20 (Ake "did not define clearly the role of the state-supplied psychiatrist," and "[a] strong case can be made that Ake requires only access to an independent psychiatric examination"); Note, Due Process and Psychiatric Assistance: Ake v. Oklahoma, 21 Tulsa L. J. 121, 143 (1985) ("The Court is unclear as to the exact nature and scope of the substantive right it has created"); Sallet, Book Review, After Hinckley: The Insanity Defense Reexamined, 94 Yale L. J. 1545, 1551, n. 18 (1985) (predicting that "whether the Constitution requires one psychiatrist or rather one defense-oriented psy-chiatrist" would "likely be the next constitutional issue adjudicated").
In this case, the Alabama courts held that Ake is satisfied by the appointment of a neutral expert, and it is impossible to say that "there could be no reasonable dispute that they were wrong."
The Court holds that "Alabama here did not meet even Ake's most basic requirements."
In support of this conclusion, the Court states that neither Dr. Goff (the expert appointed by the trial judge) nor any other expert provided assistance in understanding and evaluating medical reports and records, preparing a legal strategy, presenting evidence, or preparing to cross-examine witnesses.
Instead, the crux of the Court's complaint is that Dr. Goff merely submitted his report and did not provide further assistance to the defense.
Among other things, they give the parties notice of the question to be decided and ensure that we receive adversarial briefing, see Yee, supra, at 536, which in turns helps the Court reach sound decisions.
If McWilliams, after inducing us to grant certiorari on the first question presented, had decided to ignore that question and instead brief a fact-specific alternative theory, we would have dismissed the case as improvidently granted.
The State surely believed that it did not need to brief the second question presented in McWilliams's petition.
It is worth remembering that today's ruling requires the Court to conclude that the state court's treatment of McWilliams's Ake claim "was so lacking in justification that there was an error well understood and comprehended in existing law beyond any possibility for fairminded disagreement."
It is debatable whether the Court has even answered question two correctly (and, of course, meaningful briefing by the parties would have allowed the Court to answer the question with more confidence).5 But the fundamental point is that the Court should not have addressed this question at all.
Having completed an arduous detour around the question that we agreed to decide, the majority encounters an inconvenient roadblock: The Court of Appeals has already determined that any error of the sort the majority identifies today was harmless.
The majority claims that the Court of Appeals did not "specifically consider whether access to the type of meaningful assistance in evaluating, preparing, and presenting the defense that Ake requires would have mattered."
But the Court of Appeals concluded that, even if Dr. Goff's performance did not satisfy Ake, the error did not have a substantial and injurious effect on the outcome of the sentencing proceeding.
If the majority disagrees with the Court of Appeals' decision on that question, it should explain its reasons, but the majority is unwilling to tackle that matter and instead recites that "we are a court of review, not first view."
But the sentencing court concluded that this evidence "did not rise to the level of a mitigating circumstance," in part because of the extensive evidence that McWilliams was feigning symptoms.
And in any event, the sentencing court found that "the aggravating circumstances would far outweigh this as a mitigating circumstance."
The defense would have faced potential rebuttal testimony from three doctors who evaluated McWilliams and firmly concluded that McWilliams's mental state did not reduce his responsibility for his actions.
One of these psychiatrists also concluded that McWilliams was "grossly exaggerating his psychological symptoms to mimic mental illness" and that he "obviously" did so "to evade criminal prosecution."
If the sentencing judge had thought that there was a possibility that hearing from Dr. Goff would change his evaluation of aggravating and mitigating factors, he could have granted a continuance and called for Dr. Goff to appear.
The majority also ignores the fact that McWilliams has already had the chance to show that the outcome of the sentencing proceeding would have been different if he had been given more expert assistance.
In state postconviction proceedings, McWilliams argued that he was denied effective assistance of counsel because his lawyers did not obtain an expert who would have fully probed his mental state for purposes of mitigation.
McWilliams called an expert, Dr. Woods, who offered the opinion that McWilliams suffered from bipolar disorder at the time of the crime and testified that McWilliams's exaggeration of symptoms was not inconsistent with psychiatric problems.
But Dr. Woods also acknowledged that McWilliams "tr[ied] to malinger for purposes of making himself look worse than he is," agreed that this malingering could have been done for the purpose of avoiding the death penalty, and declined to say that McWilliams's disorder explains why he raped and murdered Reynolds.
The State introduced a psychologist of its own (Dr. Kirkland) who strenuously disagreed with Dr. Woods's diagnosis and concluded that nothing "indicate[s] that Mr. McWilliams was mentally impaired on the night of the offense."
At the end of a lengthy hearing in which both experts addressed the malingering issue (see, e.g., id., at 935-943, 955, 964-966, 1076-1077), the state postconviction court found that "McWilliams's claims based upon the testimony of Dr. Woods are without merit."
It credited the "consensus opinion" reached by the three neutral state psychiatrists, who observed and evaluated McWilliams for over a month before his trial and concluded that he "did not suffer from a mental illness."
It expressly found that "both the credibility of Dr. Woods and the reliability of his findings are questionable."
And even if Dr. Woods's diagnosis was accurate, the court stated, it "[would] not find that a failure to present" evidence of this sort "made a difference in the outcome."
The question was worded as follows: "When this Court held in Ake that an indigent defendant is entitled to meaningful expert assistance for the 'evaluation, preparation, and presentation of the defense,' did it clearly establish that the expert should be independent of the prosecution?"
Defending its approach, the Court says that it had no need to decide the "sweeping" question on which review was granted "when a narrow one will do."
Years after Kordenbrock, a Sixth Circuit panel held that Ake requires a defense expert.
A later panel insisted that "Ake does not entitle [defendants] to . . . an [independent psychiatric] expert," but to "a 'friend of the court' appointment."
The Sixth Circuit ultimately concluded that Ake did not itself clearly compel an answer to this question for AEDPA purposes.
The Court is incorrect in suggesting that Alabama "devoted an entire section of its merits brief" to the question that the Court decides.
In the section to which the Court refers, Alabama argued that even if McWilliams was entitled to relief under Ake to a partisan expert, no relief was warranted because he "had a consulting expert that did not report to the State," i.e. "a psychologist employed at the University of Alabama," and because the trial court ordered every form of testing that the defense requested.
The Court says that Dr. Goff did not play the role Ake requires of an expert because he only examined McWilliams and reported his findings to the trial court.
The Court briskly concludes that Dr. Goff did not assist the defense in understanding his report prior to the hearing or testify for McWilliams at the judicial sentencing hearing.
It also suggests that, to McWilliams's postconviction counsel, Dr. Goff 's diagnosis and the opportunity to present it to the sentencer was not as important as McWilliams suggests.
Ake held that the right to a psychiatric expert at capital sentencing comes into play "when the State presents psychiatric evidence of the defendant's future dangerousness."
As lower courts have noted, we have never held that a capital defendant is entitled to the assistance of a psychiatric expert at sentencing where future dangerousness is not in issue and the State does not introduce psychiatric evidence to prove it.
